US artist's son 'in museum theft'
The son of renowned American fantasy artist Frank Frazetta, has been charged with trying to steal paintings worth $20m (£12m) from his father's museum.
Police in Pennsylvania say Alfonso Frank Frazetta was caught loading 90 paintings into his vehicle and trailer.
They say Mr Frazetta and another man used an excavator to break into the museum in the Pocono Mountains region.
Mr Frazetta Snr, aged 81, is famed for his depiction of characters such as Conan the Barbarian and Tarzan.
The artist was in Florida at the time of the incident, the Associated Press news agency reported.
AP quoted an unnamed police official as saying the younger Mr Frazetta may have been motivated by a family feud.
A police affidavit said Mr Frazetta Jnr, 52, claimed he had been instructed by his father to "enter the museum by any means necessary to move all the paintings to a storage facility", the agency reported.
Mr Frazetta Snr denied granting any such permission, the agency said.
Labour defends budget tax rises
Ministers have defended the tax rises and spending cuts announced in the pre-Budget report against criticism from the opposition, business and unions.
The Tories said Alistair Darling "blew" an opportunity to show he was serious about cutting the deficit by delaying decisions until after the election.
The chancellor also came under fire for hitting low and middle income workers.
Among his headline proposals are a 0.5% rise in National Insurance and a 1% cap on public pay settlements from 2011.
National Insurance anger
Unions have protested that low-paid workers are being penalised for a recession not of their making and warned of "problems" ahead.
The National Insurance increase - which will raise about £3bn a year - has angered the business community, which says it is a tax on jobs when the focus should be on economic recovery.
The increase, limited to those earning more than £20,000 a year, will hit about 10 million workers.
KEY POINTS OF PBR
National Insurance up by a further 0.5% from April 2011
Economy to shrink by worse than expected 4.75% this year
New 50% tax on banker bonuses
1p rise in corporation tax for small firms scrapped
Tax rebates for electric cars and wind turbines
State pension to rise by 2.5%
According to Treasury estimates, someone earning £30,000 will be £90 a year worse off and someone on £40,000 will be £190 worse off, while someone earning £10,000 a year will be £110 better off.
Ministers said their target of halving the deficit by 2013 meant "difficult decisions" but insisted that 60% of the burden of extra taxes would fall upon the top 5% of earners.
Treasury minister Stephen Timms denied the tax rises and spending cuts outlined were a "drop in the ocean" compared to what was needed.
"These are large numbers. They will deliver for us this halving of the deficit which is absolutely essential over the next four years," he told the BBC.
Mr Timms said he was confident the economy would return to growth by the turn of the year.
However, Labour forecasts for future economic growth - which will influence the amount it has to borrow and how quickly he deficit is cut - have been questioned after the chancellor was forced to revise earlier figures.
In his statement, he said the economy was likely to contract 4.75% this year - far worse than the 3.5% decline predicted in April - while borrowing would be £3bn higher than earlier estimated.
'Blown opportunity'
The Conservatives, who will launch a new advertising campaign on Thursday warning of Labour's "debt crisis", said projected borrowing of £789bn over the next six years was unsustainable.
Mnisters had failed to lay out a credible plan for how they would pay this back, they added, "cynically" ducking tough choices until after the election - which must be held by June 2010.
"They have not included anything of significance they are going to do," said shadow Treasury minister Philip Hammond. "They had an opportunity to do it and they have blown it."
" The all important announcements will come after the election, whoever wins it "
Roger Bootle, Deloitte
Labour insist that schools, hospitals and the police will be protected from future cuts unlike under Tory proposals which would see the deficit cut faster and further.
But the Lib Dems said the money raised by tax rises and spending cuts would be used to support spending next year not to reduce the deficit, arguing the plans were "built on sand".
The BBC's political editor Nick Robinson said some of the timing of the announcements - such as the above inflation increase in some disability benefits next April - would leave the chancellor open to accusations of electioneering as the money may simply be clawed back the year after.
However, Labour insist the extra help is being provided when people need it most and the situation will be reviewed in September 2010.
'Phoney budget'
Although ministers did not publish spending details for beyond 2011, economists said it was clear the squeeze on public spending would only begin to bite in the medium term.
The respected Institute for Fiscal Studies said the chancellor's figures implied substantial cuts in many areas, potentially including transport, higher education, science and defence, in the future.
"It really is holding off the pain until later," said its director Robert Chote.
"The all important announcements will come after the election, whoever wins it," added Roger Bootle, economic adviser to accountants Deloitte.
"This has been the phoney pre-Budget report. The markets realise this."
FBI probes 'US Pakistan arrests'
The FBI is investigating the arrest in Pakistan of five reported US men on suspicion of extremist links.
The men were arrested in a raid on a house in Sarghoda in eastern Punjab province, Pakistan's US embassy told the BBC.
The FBI has said it is investigating whether they are the same men who were reported missing from their homes in the US state of Virginia last month.
The US State Department said it was also seeking information on the men.
Three of them are reported to be of Pakistani descent, one of Egyptian heritage and the other of a Yemeni background.
"If they are American citizens, we of course are going to be very interested in the charges that they've been detained on and in what sort of circumstances they're being held," said spokesman Ian Kelly.
FBI spokeswoman Katherine Schweit said the agency was aware of the arrests and was in contact with the families of the missing students.
"We are working with Pakistan authorities to determine their identities and the nature of their business there, if indeed these are the students who had gone missing," she said.
The Pakistani embassy in Washington said the men were arrested in a house belonging to an uncle of one of them.
He said the house was already of interest to local police and that no charges had yet been filed against the arrested men.
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton declined to comment on the arrests, reported the Reuters news agency, but said the US had to "work more closely with both Afghanistan and Pakistan to try to root out the infrastructure of terrorism that continues to recruit and train people".
The five students were reported missing from their homes in northern Virginia by their families in late November.
Amnesty condemns Iranian 'abuses'
Human rights in Iran are as poor as at any time over the past 20 years, according to a report from campaign group Amnesty International.
The report details "patterns of abuse" by the regime before and after disputed presidential elections in June.
One man quoted in the report said he had been beaten and burned with cigarettes. Another said he was threatened with rape.
Iran has dismissed previous criticism of its human rights record.
Officials have said such criticism is politically motivated.
Thousands of people were arrested and dozens killed in Iran after the disputed election of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad led to the largest street protests since the 1979 Islamic Revolution.
Dozens have been given jail terms, and prosecutors say at least five people have been sentenced to death.
BBC Tehran correspondent, Jon Leyne, who is now in London, says that early in the protests, the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, accepted some of the allegations of abuse, ordering the closure of the Kahrizak detention centre.
But since then, there has been almost no tolerance of criticism by the authorities, our correspondent says.
'False confession'
Amnesty International cited the account of 26-year-old computing student Ebrahim Mehtari, who said he was accused of "working with Facebook networks" and protesting against the election result.
"They frequently beat me on the face," he was quoted as saying.
"I was burned with cigarettes under my eyes, on the neck, head... They threatened to execute me and they humiliated me."
After five days he signed a false confession and was taken out and left in the street, still bleeding and semi-conscious, Amnesty said.
In August, defeated presidential candidate Mehdi Karroubi said some protesters detained after the election had been tortured to death in prison and others had been raped.
Iranian officials denied the rape claims, but admitted that abuses had taken place.
Amnesty also cited the case of a former detainee who said he was held in a container with 75 others for more than eight weeks at a detention centre at Kahrizak.
Amnesty accepted that the Iranian parliament and judiciary had established committees to investigate the post-election unrest and the government's response, but it said the mandate and powers of the bodies were unclear and the parliamentary committee's findings had not been made public.
The group said at least 90 people had been arrested in the past three weeks to forestall further demonstrations.
Ski slope is created in city park
More than 100 tonnes of artificial snow were used to turn a Bristol landmark into a piste for a competition.
The Piste in the Park event attracted 16 semi-professional skiers and snow borders competing for cash prizes.
At the top of the slope in Brandon Hill park there was a short jump ramp before a 100m-long slope.
Fourth-year medical student John Hickman said there was a beautiful view from the top of the slope but it was pretty daunting.
It's a beautiful view with all the city lights below all twinkling.
There's some of the best skiers and snow borders in the county here - some real talent," he added.
Prizes were awarded for the best tricks - or manoeuvres performed on the slope.
After Thursday evening's event the snow will be left to melt away.
Still them and us
Can Islam Be French?
Pluralism and Pragmatism in a Secularist State.
AT A time when Swiss voters have called for a ban on the construction of minarets and there is widespread alarm over the supposed Islamisation of Europe, John Bowen, an American academic, has written an informed and measured account of whether Muslims can integrate—and are integrating—into one of the continent’s most avowedly secular societies.
Some readers will come to this new book as admirers of the author’s last work, "Why the French Don’t Like Headscarves" (2006), an elegant and closely argued study of an issue that divided and preoccupied the country for a decade and a half, and whose effects are still felt today.
Mr Bowen’s latest book has a broader and more ambitious canvas.
As a good anthropologist, he wants to know not just what the politicians and the media are saying about Islam in France, but what is actually happening on the ground.
He has spent months in the mosques, schools and institutes which now provide France’s 5m-6m Muslims with what Mr Bowen calls "Islamic spaces".
He is a good listener, reproducing debates between teachers and students about the questions that concern them most.
Should a Muslim get married in a mosque or a town hall (or both)?
Should young Muslims be taught about evolution and gay rights?
Can a Muslim woman marry a non-Muslim man?
Is it legitimate for a Muslim to use an interest-based banking system to get a mortgage?
It is these seemingly mundane issues, he argues, that are the stuff of daily life rather than the political dramas that preoccupy the media.
The author identifies a new generation of imams, teachers and intellectuals, none of them household names, with the possible exception of Tariq Ramadan, a Swiss-born Arab Muslim scholar and academic.
This new generation is trying to open up the debate about how to be both a good Muslim and a good citizen in a modern secular society.
They are not having the argument all their way.
Conservatives are suspicious of the very idea of a French or European Islam.
The thinkers and activists whom Mr Bowen interviews tend to be at odds with their Salafi counterparts—advocates of the purist Sunni Islam associated with Saudi Arabia—who nowadays have a small but influential presence among Europe’s Muslims.
Mr Bowen thinks that Muslim values and French secularism could be compatible.
But accommodation requires give-and-take on both sides.
He questions how far French policymakers (and the intellectual elite that so fiercely guards laïcité) are really committed to pluralism.
He suggests that Muslims are probably getting a rawer deal than the Catholics, Protestants and Jews who have also had to make their historic compromises with secular republicanism.
Rather than a growing pragmatism, he detects a "tightening of the value-screws".
Can Islam be French? After reading this book, one is inclined to say, "Yes, but not yet."
The bleakest outlook in the world
THE Arctic is changing faster and more dramatically than any other environment on the planet.
The ice that defines it is melting with alarming speed, taking with it life that can survive nowhere else.
Oil, gas, shipping and fishing interests have been heading into the newly open water, with diplomats, lawyers, and now authors, in their wake.
In "On Thin Ice" Richard Ellis, a writer and illustrator, paints a natural history of the icon of the north, the polar bear.
Well-versed in the complicated history and politics of whaling, he describes the long tradition of Arctic explorers who proved themselves by taking on the white bear.
Admiral Nelson’s encounter as a plucky 14-year-old midshipman fighting only with the butt of his musket is surely a myth, but others are true.
Young bears, captured as they swam after the bodies of their newly killed mothers, were caught and sent to zoos and circuses.
One early 20th-century big-top act featured 75 polar bears at once.
Even today, zoo enclosures are still typically a millionth of the area of a wild adult’s range. The climate is rarely suitable: the resident polar bear in Singapore has turned green from algae growing within the hollow hairs of its coat.
Click here to find out more!
Mr Ellis draws on the accounts of other writers and historians, and often returns to the threat that hunters pose to the survival of the species.
Although banned in Norway, America and Russia, the killing continues in Greenland and Canada, where hunters in helicopters and skidoo-riding Inuit Indians both use high-powered assault rifles to bring down their quarry.
Ironically it is in the waters towards the north of those two hunting nations that the ice will last longest.
In his new book, "After the Ice", Alun Anderson, a former editor of New Scientist, offers a clear and chilling account of the science of the Arctic and a gripping glimpse of how the future may turn out there.
Not that scientists have all the answers.
Neither atmospheric scientists nor oceanographers can adequately account for the speed of the changes.
It is not for want of trying.
Fridtjof Nansen’s pioneering journeys at the end of the 19th century and early 20th century first hinted at the whirling of the ice pack.
Cold-war submarines then mapped the shifting ridges running beneath it.
Satellite surveys and large arrays of iceberg-mounted probes are a useful addition, but much is still done by hardy individuals camped out in the cold.
Mr Anderson looks in on the extraordinary, tiny world of the tributary system within the Arctic ice, formed by trickles of briny water which gets squeezed as it freezes.
But from the bear above to the microscopic wonders within, all are doomed once the summer ice goes, which is expected to happen at some point between 2013 and 2050.
'In a few months...this could be us'
Marines among 6,000 who place wreaths on graves at Arlington
Pfc. De'Angello Robinson, 19, traveled seven hours by bus to place a single wreath on the tomb of a soldier whom he'd never met.
For him, and the other Marines who took the trip from Camp Johnson in Jacksonville, N.C. to Arlington National Cemetery to decorate graves, the day was about paying tribute to men and women who once stood in their shoes.
In a few months, from where we are getting shipped out, this could be us, said Robinson of the fallen soldiers.
If it is us, I would want somebody to do the same for me so I'm just trying to show respect.
He was one of more than 6,000 volunteers who gathered Saturday morning to place wreaths on veterans' gravesites across several sections of Arlington Ceremony.
In 1992, Morrill Worcester, owner of Worcester Wreath Company in Harrington, Maine, began the event when he and several others decided to decorate several hundred gravesites at Arlington Ceremony.
Now an 18-year-old tradition, Morrill and his wife Karen, make the trip every year stopping in different cities along the way to host events dedicated to the people in the military and victims of terrorism.
The Worcesters also founded a non-profit, Wreaths Across America, which has spread the event across other states.
This year, volunteers placed more than 16,000 wreaths on the graves at Arlington Cemetery, areas at the Pentagon, graves at Fayetteville National Cemetery in Arkansas, Battery Park in New York City and on the memorial site for United Airlines Flight 93 in Shanksville, Pa.
For the second year, the Walmart Foundation donated more than $150,000 to purchase, and transport the wreaths.
Charleen Hunt, 70, of Westminster, said she made the trip to Arlington in honor of her husband, a deceased career military man.
While her husband is not buried at Arlington, Hunt said this was her way of giving back to those who made sacrifices.
It's a small way civilians can support our troops, she said.
It's like visiting a family gravesite.
Wrapped in layers of warm clothing, volunteers walked across the cemetery's expansive lawns and hills.
Volunteers targeted older tombs from World War I, World War II, and the war in Vietnam because they are not visited as often as newer graves, organizers said.
The mood was upbeat as children played and couples held hands while carrying the fresh pine to the graying tombstones.
Each circular wreath was a deep green with a small red bow fastened across the top.
Nearby, Section 60, where most veterans of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan are buried, remained virtually silent.
The United Service Organizations donated 1,000 wreaths to decorate the section but the somber mood of the current wars filled the area.
Individuals openly wept, others prayed, and families and friends held each other in the frigid air.
Some read aloud names carved into the stones while others bowed to see small black and white place cards pushed inside wet mud for those whose tombstones have not yet been completed.
Sandra Lockwood was one of the many mothers wiping tears from her eyes in front of her son's grave.
She drove eight hours from Zanesfield, Ohio to visit the gravesite of Marine Gunnery Sgt. David Shane Spicer who died in combat in July.
Nobody should ever forget why we're free. . .my son paid for that, she said.
"When I'm long gone, I want someone to remember him."
U.S. government contractor arrested by Cuban officials
The Cuban government has arrested a U.S. government contractor who was distributing cellphones and laptop computers in the country, State Department officials said Saturday.
The contractor, who has not yet been identified, works for Development Alternatives Inc., based in Bethesda.
The company works on projects for clients such as the U.S. Agency for International Development and the World Bank.
Consular officers with the U.S. Interest Section in Havana are seeking access to the detainee, who was arrested Dec. 5.
The specific charges have not been made public, though under Cuban law, a Cuban citizen or a foreign visitor can be arrested for nearly anything under the claim of "dangerousness."
All so-called counter-revolutionary activities, which include mild protests and critical writings, carry the risk of arrest.
Anti-government graffiti and speech are considered serious crimes.
Cuba has a fledging blogging community, led by the popular commentator Yoani Sánchez, who often writes about how she and her husband are followed and harassed by government agents.
Sánchez has repeatedly applied for permission to leave the country to accept awards but has been denied permission.
The detention of an American contractor may likely raise tensions between the Castro brothers Communist government in Cuba and the Obama administration, which has been pursuing a "go-slow" approach to improving relations with the island.
News of the arrest was first reported by the New York Times Friday night.
The new U.S. policy stresses that if the Cuban government takes concrete steps, such as freeing political prisoners and creating more space for opposition, the United States will reciprocate.
Cellphones and laptops are legal in Cuba, though they are new and coveted commodities in a country where the average wage of a government worker is $15 a month.
The Cuban government granted ordinary citizens the right to buy cellphones just this year; they are used mostly for texting, as a 15-minute telephone conversation would eat up a day's wages.
Internet use is extremely limited on the island.
It is available in expensive hotels and to foreign visitors there, and at some government outlets, such as universities.
Cubans who want to log on often have to give their names to the government.
Access to many Web sites is restricted.
The detention of an American in Cuba is rare.
Most of the handful of U.S. citizens in jail in Cuba are behind bars for crimes such as drug smuggling, said Gloria Berbena, the press officer at the U.S. Interests Section in Havana.
Berbena said she could not provide more information on the arrest.
The arrest and detention are clearly wrong.
An activity that in any other open society would be legal -- giving away free cellphones -- is in Cuba a crime, said Jose Miguel Vivanco, director of the Americas program of the group Human Rights Watch, which recently issued a tough report on freedoms in Cuba called "New Castro, Same Cuba," a reference to the installation of Raul Castro as the leader of the country to replace his ailing older brother Fidel.
Vivanco said that the accused are often arrested, tried and imprisoned in a day.
He said that any solution would likely be political and that the Cuban government often provokes a negative reaction in the United States just as the two countries begin to move toward more dialogue.
Pakistani officials unraveling plot to send men to Afghanistan
Pakistani authorities on Saturday zeroed in on the alleged mastermind of a plot to send five Northern Virginia men to Afghanistan to kill U.S. troops, saying they hope the case could help unravel an extensive network of terrorist recruiters who scour the Internet for radicalized young men.
Investigators said they were hunting for a shadowy insurgent figure known as Saifullah, who invited the men to Pakistan after first discovering them when one made comments approving of terror attacks on the Internet video site YouTube.
Saifullah guided the men once they were in Pakistan, attempting to help them reach the remote area in Pakistan's tribal belt that is home to al-Qaeda and its terrorist training camps.
But a Pakistani intelligence official who had been briefed on the case said Saturday that Saifullah was unsuccessful in convincing al-Qaeda commanders that the men were not part of a CIA plot to infiltrate the terrorist network.
As a result, they were marooned for days in the eastern city of Sargodha, far from the forbidding mountains of the northwest that have become a terrorist haven.
They were regarded as a sting operation.
That's why they were rejected, said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the case.
The official said the men were undeterred and were still trying to acquire the right endorsements to gain access to the al-Qaeda camps when they were arrested by Pakistani law enforcement.
The case of the five -- who remain in Pakistan and are being questioned by the FBI -- underscores the critical role of recruiters in identifying potential terrorists and, perhaps more importantly, determining who can be trusted.
Since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, U.S. intelligence has made it a top priority to try to place human assets inside al-Qaeda.
The organization's recruiters act as gatekeepers, keeping out those who are not serious about their commitment to holy war, and those who could be spies.
Would-be American recruits are treated by al-Qaeda with special scrutiny, analysts said.
But they are also considered enormously appealing to the group because of their potential to access U.S. targets and because of their propaganda value.
But Evan Kohlmann, senior analyst with the U.S.-based NEFA Foundation, said terror groups have also become much more cautious in recent years about who they allow in because U.S. intelligence agencies have become experts in their recruiting methods.
If you're trying to sink someone into these groups, what better way than to follow the recruitment model that so many have already followed? Kohlmann said.
The model is one that has become far more Web-based.
Tens of thousands protest in Copenhagen, demand climate 'action'
Tens of thousands of protesters marched on the streets here Saturday, demanding bolder action on climate from the negotiators working inside the city's Bella Convention Center.
Protesters said as many 100,000 people joined in the event, but police estimated the count was closer to 25,000.
The event was relatively peaceful, though a handful of masked activists set off small explosives near a group of government buildings downtown.
On a day when little happened in the U.N.-sponsored climate talks, thousands of activists walked across the city holding banners in English saying "There is No Planet B" and one in Spanish declaring, "The Earth is Saying, 'Enough.'
Several celebrities joined the protest, including Danish model and photographer Helena Christensen, who said that traveling to her mother's native country of Peru made me aware of the heartbreaking issues the country is dealing with due to the impacts of climate changes that are already occurring."
This is part of the reason why I have decided to join the big march -- to pass on the word and to appeal to the world's leaders to deliver a fair, ambitious and binding deal, she said.
It is not an easy task, but it needs to be done, there is no way around it anymore.
The police kept the protesters from getting too close to the Bella center, and said they had arrested 19 people, primarily on the grounds that they had either worn masks or carried pocket knives.
Those activities are banned during demonstrations under Danish law.
According to one bystander, who asked not to be identified because he is involved in the climate talks, activists sporting masks and black outfits set off several explosives near Copenhagen's main canal, which is nearby several ministries.
They were lobbing them by the buildings, he said, adding they began as flares but were followed by "a couple big explosions."
Inside the convention center, people gathered around television screens to watch the march throughout the afternoon.
But the protest did not seem to penetrate the consciousness of key officials such as Su Wei, China's chief climate negotiator.
When asked whether he thought the demonstration was having a constructive impact on the international deliberations, he replied in English, "Actually, that is something that I was not aware of."
He then continued in Mandarin, saying, "Because the venue is large, I cannot hear what is happening outside."
He observed that whether the march was hurting or helping depended on one's perspective.
It shows the concentration of the general public and different sectors on the subject of climate change, he said.
On the other hand, "You can also say that they disrupt the negotiations, or the freedom of other people.
Test data reveal stubborn racial gaps
Last week's federal report card on math achievement was a welcome piece of good news for D.C. public schools.
Although the District still lags far behind the country's top-performing systems, the report card showed fourth- and eighth-graders making strides at a faster pace over the past two years than cities including Atlanta, Chicago and New York.
But what remains embedded in the latest numbers from the National Assessment of Educational Progress is the persistent achievement gap between African American and white students both locally and nationally.
The average scores of white D.C. fourth-graders over the past two years grew from 262 to 270 (on a scale of 500), but their African American peers' rose just three points, from 209 to 212.
The achievement gap actually grew between 2007 and 2009, from 53 to 58 points.
African American progress in the eighth grade remained essentially flat, dipping a statistically insignificant one point, from 245 to 244.
Average white scores were not included in the test results because the sample size wasn't large enough.
The picture across a six-year stretch isn't more encouraging.
The gap separating white and black fourth-graders in 2003, when the first NAEP in the District was given, was 60 scale points (262 to 202).
Although the scores achieved by children in both groups have increased during this period, the difference has barely narrowed to 58.
Some education advocates in the District expressed concern last week that the gains celebrated by Chancellor Michelle A. Rhee and Mayor Adrian M. Fenty (D) were propelled largely by white students who are already high achievers.
It would suggest that we've raised the aggregate by treating those at the higher end of the scale, which is problematic and troublesome, said Jeff Smith, executive director of D.C. Voice, a nonprofit group that advocates for educational equality in the District.
I'm not jumping up and down about a two- or three-point spread, said D.C. Council member Kwame R. Brown (D-At Large), who has a daughter in the fourth grade at Eaton Elementary.
A frequent critic of Rhee's management style, Brown said the message of the test scores is that the city's middle schools are in desperate need of attention.
Clearly, you always want to see the plus signs, and I respect that.
But what's scary is we're not spending nearly the time and energy we need to spend on our middle schools.
Rhee said the District needs to continue to find better ways to address the needs of low-achieving students.
This fall, for example, some teachers are being trained to use a new reading curriculum, the Wilson Reading System, targeted to students in the upper elementary and middle school grades who didn't master the basics of reading early in their school careers and are significantly behind their peers.
Everyday Mathematics, a K-through-sixth-grade math curriculum emphasizing games and real-life experiences that was brought to the District under former superintendent Clifford Janey, is credited with some of the NAEP progress reported last week.
I just think we have to keep working at bringing the best interventions to those students who are below grade level, Rhee said.
Others say that the NAEP's results highlight the question of whether Rhee can continue to lift the overall performance of the system and still provide the additional money and resources for low-performing schools that will be necessary to narrow the gap.
There is a sort of rough-edged dilemma here for Michelle Rhee, said Bruce Fuller, an education professor at the University of California at Berkeley who studies urban test scores.
The conventional policy remedy is to target your resources and management reforms on schools located in the poorest sections of D.C.
So the targeting may yield political repercussions that go against that important agenda.
But the rub, of course, is like other urban superintendents, she's trying to hold on to the white and black middle class.
Our focus is on ensuring that we build a system of great schools.
We need to strengthen our neighborhood schools so that all families, regardless of where they live, are confident that their children can get an excellent public education.
Janey, now superintendent of schools in Newark, said in an interview this week that one essential element to closing the achievement gap is to lengthen the traditional public school year, currently 180 days in the District, to compete with charter schools.
You have to get up near 200 days to have the force of change, said Janey, who came to agreement with his teachers' union last year on a 185-day year, which he regards as "a marker" for seeking a bigger increase in the next contract.
Making higher education a part of more futures
The tour bus pulled into Gettysburg College with a loud wheeze.
Graciela Rodriguez, 12, stepped off and blinked for a moment at the white columns, brick facades and emerald lawns.
Graciela's parents had barely graduated from high school in El Salvador.
Until recently, Graciela herself, who was born in Silver Spring and lives in Riverdale, had never set foot on a college campus.
Yet as she and the other eighth-graders in the group explored Gettysburg, where the tuition runs $38,690 a year, their attitude was less that of awestruck visitors than of enthusiastic prospective students.
Yes! This is where I'll be! exclaimed Graciela, who would like to study medicine, when the guide announced that they'd entered the science building.
Wow, really? she said thoughtfully, when told of the school's low professor-to-student ratio.
The Pennsylvania college was the seventh the kids had visited on their three-day tour, and by now they had completely absorbed its intended message: The question is not whether you're going to college.
The question is where.
Although there is mounting concern about the large number U.S.-born children of Hispanic immigrants who drop out of high school or get pregnant as teenagers, there are also hundreds of thousands who are getting the college educations they need to enter the middle class.
In fact, one in five of these "second-generation" Hispanics graduates from college -- a notable achievement given that so many of their immigrant parents, mostly Mexicans and Central Americans, entered the United States without finishing high school.
Their success stories are important, researchers say, because they point the way forward for a generation that will play an outsize role in the country's workforce.
Those who study high achievers say they often have a natural affinity for school and an innate drive to succeed.
Many also have parents who set lofty goals for their children and find ways to compensate for their unfamiliarity with American schools.
But mentoring programs also can play an enormous role in helping Graciela and millions of children like her make it to college -- particularly if those efforts are sustained over time.
When you're looking at low-income kids whose parents don't have the experience and the skills to help them navigate through the system, any single intervention at any one point in time is not going to solve it, said Patricia Gándara, a researcher at the University of California, Davis, who has studied Latino students.
We need to think about providing a supportive network for these kids from preschool all the way on through high school.
The federal program that funded Graciela's college tour is a useful example.
Known as GEAR UP, it provides more than $300 million a year to local school systems to run college prep programs that begin when low-income students are in middle school and continue until they finish high school.
Since 1999, the program has served more than 10 million students, with more than 60 percent going on to college, according to the U.S. Department of Education.
Iraqi Oil Ministry reaches deals with 10 foreign oil companies
Despite concerns about violence and political instability, the Iraqi government managed to attract major oil companies to rebuild its ailing infrastructure during two auctions that concluded Saturday.
The 10 deals the Iraqi Oil Ministry reached with foreign oil companies suggest that China, Russia and European oil firms are poised to play a major role in refurbishing Iraq's oil industry, crippled by decades of war and sanctions.
American companies walked away with stakes in just two of the 10 auctioned fields.
Seven American companies had paid to participate in the second auction, which began Friday.
The only one that submitted a bid lost.
Two American companies reached deals for fields auctioned in June.
The meager representation of American oil giants in Iraq's opening oil industry surprised analysts.
Iraq finally opened its doors after six years of war, and instead of U.S. companies, you have Asians and Europeans leading the way, said Ruba Husari, the editor of Iraq Oil Forum, an online news outlet.
It will be a long time before anything else will be on offer in Iraq.
Concerns over security, underscored by massive coordinated bombings Tuesday, and political instability as the U.S. military withdraws, likely kept American oil companies from venturing more forcefully in Iraq, which has the world's third-largest proven crude reserves, analysts said.
U.S. firms were in some cases at a disadvantage because rivals, particularly the Chinese and other government controlled energy firms, have markedly lower labor costs and are more prone to take risks because they don't respond to shareholders.
Exxon-Mobil and Occidental Petroleum Inc. were the only American companies that reached deals with the ministry.
Major U.S. firms such as Chevron and ConocoPhillips, which have cultivated close ties with the Iraqi Oil Ministry and have provided technical advice in recent years, walked away empty-handed.
Russian companies Lukoil and Gazprom were the top stakeholders in two of the contracts awarded this weekend.
State-owned Chinese National Petroleum Corp. bid on more contracts than any other company and walked away with large stakes in contracts for two major fields.
We all know that China is on track to become a major economic as well as technological power, Oil Ministry spokesman Assam Jihad said.
We feel confident that the Chinese company will be on par with its competitors and will deliver on its commitments towards Iraq.
Companies pre-selected to submit bids made offers that were then compared to the per barrel fee the ministry was willing to pay for boosting output above current levels at each field.
Top al-Qaeda planner apparently killed in Pakistan
An apparent U.S. missile strike along Pakistan's border with Afghanistan is believed to have killed a top al-Qaeda operations planner this week, U.S. counterterrorism officials said Friday.
If confirmed, this would be the second deadly attack against a senior terrorist leader this fall.
Saleh al-Somali was one of two Arab men thought to have been killed when a pair of missiles tore into their car Tuesday near the town of Miran Shah in North Waziristan province, according to U.S. sources and Pakistani officials in the region.
Local authorities said the missiles were fired by an unmanned aircraft of the type operated by the CIA inside Pakistan's lawless tribal belt.
They were driving in a white car, heading toward the Afghan border, when the car was hit, said an official with Pakistan's civilian intelligence agency, speaking by phone from Miran Shah.
The official said suspected local militants rushed to the spot and quickly confiscated what remained of the "totally demolished bodies."
Local authorities were unable to verify the victims' identities, but two U.S. counterterrorism officials cited unspecified evidence that Somali was among the dead.
Somali was described as a senior al-Qaeda military planner who ran the terrorist group's operations outside the Afghanistan-Pakistan region.
He was engaged in plotting throughout the world, said one senior official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, citing the sensitive nature of U.S. airstrikes inside Pakistani territory.
Given his central role, this probably included plotting attacks against the United States and Europe.
He took strategic guidance from al-Qaeda's top leadership and translated it into operational blueprints for prospective terrorist attacks.
The second U.S. official said Somali had risen quickly through al-Qaeda's ranks and was well-connected with other extremist groups in the region.
He may not be a household name to some Americans, but that in no way diminishes the threat he posed to us and our allies, the second official said.
If his death is confirmed, Somali would be the second senior al-Qaeda or Taliban leader killed since September, when a similar strike killed Najmuddin Jalolov, the leader of a militant faction in the tribal belt, and three other top operatives.
The tempo of strikes by CIA-run drones has declined since the summer, from an average of about six operations per month to two, according to a tally by the Long War Journal, a Web site managed by a nonprofit group.
The decline may be due to improved tactics by terrorist groups, which have taken steps to limit their vulnerability while also ruthlessly killing suspected informants, the site said.
Top U.N. envoy in Kabul to step down
The United Nations' top envoy in Afghanistan, Kai Eide, said Friday that he would step down from his post in March, ending a tumultuous tenure that was marred by allegations of widespread corruption in Afghanistan's U.N.-backed presidential election.
Eide's departure comes as the Obama administration has decided to send an additional 30,000 U.S. troops to Afghanistan.
The U.N. envoy said that he supports the surge but expressed concern that the U.S. timetable for a military drawdown beginning in 18 months would prompt other NATO governments to withdraw their forces.
We need to accelerate the buildup of the Afghan security forces and send the right signal to the Afghans that they can trust the international community, Eide said in a telephone interview from Kabul.
The commitment has to be long-term.
The Norwegian diplomat also pressed the United States and other military powers to increase the number of international civil servants aiding Afghanistan's political transition.
The surge on the military side has to be copied on the civilian side, he said.
Eide said he was not resigning but simply fulfilling a commitment he made to his family in March 2008 to spend only two years in Kabul.
He said he wanted to serve notice to U.N.
Secretary General Ban Ki-moon now so that he would have time to find a replacement.
What I've said is that you better start looking for a successor, Eide said.
When I came here, there was a two-month vacuum between a departure of my predecessor and my arrival.
Ban has begun searching for a replacement, according to U.N. officials.
The officials say he has been considering Staffan di Mistura, a Swedish-Italian national who recently headed the U.N. mission in Baghdad, and Jean-Marie Guéhenno, a Frenchman who previously led U.N. peacekeeping operations.
Eide's standing in Afghanistan was tested after his former deputy, Peter W. Galbraith, accused him in September of favoring President Hamid Karzai in the country's presidential vote and of covering up evidence of massive electoral fraud.
Eide denied the allegations, but he said the accusations by Galbraith -- who was fired -- "certainly damaged the mission, because there was already a great degree of skepticism with regard to international interference" in the election.
Eide said he proposed the appointment of a senior civilian representative to coordinate relief efforts by the U.S.-led forces in Afghanistan.
He also urged the U.N. leadership to allow his successor to hire more staff from the United States and other Western countries that donate to the Afghan mission, saying it would increase their confidence that their money is being properly spent.
Eide expressed frustration with the limitations on his powers in Afghanistan, saying that cumbersome U.N. hiring regulations undercut his ability to bring in talent.
The U.N. rules are such that I have only been able to recruit a single person since May, he said.
That is catastrophic and can't continue.
Gates: Iran to face additional sanctions
Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates said Friday that world powers will soon impose "significant additional sanctions" on Iran over its failure to engage in talks on its nuclear ambitions.
Gates, speaking to a group of about 300 U.S. troops in northern Iraq during a week-long tour of war zones in Afghanistan and Iraq, played down the prospect of military action against the Islamic republic.
There are no good options in Iran, he said, in response to a query from a soldier about the likelihood of such a development. ¨
One of the things that weighs on me is that if we have learned anything from Iraq over the past six years, [it] is the inherent unpredictability of war.
The Obama administration is considering a package of sanctions that would target Iran's military and political elite, but Gates signaled that some of the sanctions could also affect ordinary Iranians.
He said that "a package of incentives and disincentives" would be needed "to persuade the Iranian government that they would actually be less secure with nuclear weapons" because "their people will suffer enormously" from sanctions.
In a statement Friday by White House spokesman Robert Gibbs, the administration joined European leaders in warning that Iran will face "credible" consequences if it does not bring its nuclear program into full compliance with the U.N. Security Council and its nuclear watchdog, the International Atomic Energy Agency.
Iran insists that it wants to develop nuclear expertise only for peaceful purposes.
In talks in Geneva on Oct. 1, it indicated that it would return to talks on restraining its nuclear program and agree to give up a substantial portion of its stockpile of enriched uranium in exchange for desperately needed fuel for a medical research reactor.
The administration has pushed for such an agreement as a way to build confidence between the two sides and to buy time for negotiations.
But since then, Iran appears to have walked away from the tentative deals -- in part, experts say, because the Iranian leadership is divided over whether to engage with the United States.
Frankly, Iran's stiffing the international community on some of the proposals that they actually agreed to at the beginning of October, I think, has brought the international community, including the Russians and the Chinese, together in a way that they have not been in terms of significant additional sanctions on the Iranians, Gates said.
President Obama has set a Dec. 31 deadline for Iran to respond to the proposals before he turns to reviewing other options, including pursuing what Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton once called "crippling sanctions."
In a statement issued in New York, Iran's mission to the United Nations denounced what it called "baseless and unfounded allegations" Thursday by some Security Council members about Iran's nuclear activities and said it is willing to continue talks with the United States and five other world powers "in order to achieve an appropriate, long-term solution."
Gates, who was to return to Washington late Friday, met in the morning with Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki before flying to Iraq's oil-rich Kurdish region for meetings with troops in Kirkuk and Kurdish officials in Irbil.
Tensions remain high between the Kurds and Iraq's Arab majority, particularly over boundaries, property rights and revenue-sharing.
Gates urged both sides to reduce the potential for conflict to prevent any delays in U.S. plans to cut the number of American troops from 115,000 to 50,000 by the end of August.
Gates also sought to allay Kurdish anxiety about the pending drawdown. U.S. officials quoted Gates as telling Massoud Barzani, president of the Kurdistan Regional Government: "We will preserve your security, prosperity and autonomy within a unified Iraq.
We will not abandon you."
In aging China, a change of course
Wang Weijia and her husband grew up surrounded by propaganda posters lecturing them that "Mother Earth is too tired to sustain more children" and "One more baby means one more tomb."
They learned the lesson so well that when Shanghai government officials, alarmed by their city's low birthrate and aging population, abruptly changed course this summer and began encouraging young couples to have more than one child, their reaction was instant and firm: No way.
We have already given all our time and energy for just one child.
We have none left for a second, said Wang, 31, a human resources administrator with an 8-month-old son.
More than 30 years after China's one-child policy was introduced, creating two generations of notoriously chubby, spoiled only children affectionately nicknamed "little emperors," a population crisis is looming in the country.
The average birthrate has plummeted to 1.8 children per couple as compared with six when the policy went into effect, according to the U.N.
Population Division, while the number of residents 60 and older is predicted to explode from 16.7 percent of the population in 2020 to 31.1 percent by 2050. That is far above the global average of about 20 percent.
The imbalance is worse in wealthy coastal cities with highly educated populations, such as Shanghai.
Last year, people 60 and older accounted for almost 22 percent of Shanghai's registered residents, while the birthrate was less than one child per couple.
Xie Lingli, director of the Shanghai Municipal Population and Family Planning Commission, has said that fertile couples need to have babies to "help reduce the proportion of the aging population and alleviate a workforce shortage in the future."
Shanghai is about to be "as old -- not as rich, though -- as developed countries such as Japan and Sweden," she said.
A gradual easing
Written into the country's constitution in 1978, China's one-child policy is arguably the most controversial mandate introduced by the ruling Communist Party to date.
Couples who violate the policy face enormous fines -- up to three times their annual salary in some areas -- and discrimination at work.
Chinese officials have credited the policy with helping the country avoid critical strain on its natural resources, while human rights advocates have denounced abuses in the enforcement of the policy.
In rural areas, some officials have forced women pregnant with a second child to undergo abortions.
In addition, many couples have had sex-selective abortions, leading to an unnaturally high male-to-female ratio.
In recent years, population officials have gradually softened their stance on the one-child policy.
In 2004, they allowed for more exceptions to the rule -- including urban residents, members of ethnic minorities and cases in which both husband and wife are only children -- and in 2007, they toned down many of their hard-line slogans.
Qiao Xiaochun, a professor at the Institute of Population Research at Peking University, said central government officials have recently been debating even more radical changes, such as allowing couples to have two children if one partner is an only child.
In July, Shanghai became the first Chinese city to launch an aggressive campaign to encourage more births.
Almost overnight, posters directing families to have only one child were replaced by copies of regulations detailing who would be eligible to have a second child and how to apply for a permit.
The city government dispatched family planning officials and volunteers to meet with couples in their homes and slip leaflets under doors.
It has also pledged to provide emotional and financial counseling to those electing to have more than one child.
The response has been underwhelming, family planning officials say.
Disappointing response
Although officials in one rural town on the outskirts of Shanghai say they saw an uptick in applications from couples wanting a second child after the campaign was launched, the more urban districts report no change.
Huinan township, with a population of 115,000, for instance, is still receiving just four to five applications a month.
Disappointed Shanghai officials say that, despite the campaign, the number of births in the city in 2010 is still expected to be only about 165,000 -- slightly higher than in 2009 but lower than in 2008.
Feng Juying, head of the family planning committee in Shanghai's Caolu township, said financial considerations are probably the main reason many people don't want more children.
They want to give the best to their first, she said.
Yang Jiawei, 27, and his wife, Liu Juanjuan, 26, said they would love to have two children and are legally allowed to do so.
But like many Chinese, they have only the scant medical and life insurance provided by the government.
Without a social safety net, they say, the choice would be irresponsible.
People in the West wrongly see the one-child policy as a rights issue, said Yang, a construction engineer whose wife is seven months pregnant with the couple's first child.
Yes, we are being robbed of the chance to have more than one child.
But the problem is not just some policy.
It is money.
Other couples cite psychological reasons for hesitating.
Wang, the human resources administrator, said she wants an only child because she was one herself: "We were at the center of our families and used to everyone taking care of us.
We are not used to taking care of and don't really want to take care of others."
Chen Zijian, a 42-year-old who owns a translation company, put it more bluntly.
For the dual-career, middle-class parents who are bringing the birthrate down, he said, it's about being successful enough to be selfish.
Today's 20- and 30-somethings grew up seeing their parents struggle during the early days of China's experiment with capitalism and don't want that kind of life for themselves, he said.
Even one child makes huge demands on parents' time, he said.
A mother has to give up at least two years of her social life.
Then there are the space issues -- "You have to remodel your apartment" -- and the strategizing -- "You have to have a résumé ready by the time the child is 9 months old for the best preschools."
Most of his friends are willing to deal with this once, Chen said, but not twice.
Ours is the first generation with higher living standards, he said.
We do not want to make too many sacrifices.
U.N. group drafts plan to reduce emissions
The U.N.-sponsored climate conference -- characterized so far by unruly posturing and mutual recriminations -- gained renewed focus Friday with the release of a document outlining ambitious greenhouse-gas reductions over the next 40 years, with industrialized nations shouldering most of the burden in the near term.
The text, which could provide the basis for a final political deal to regulate greenhouse gases, highlighted the remaining obstacles as much as it illuminated a path forward.
But it was seen as an important advance in a negotiation that is running out of time, with more than 100 world leaders arriving in Copenhagen next week.
Forged by a U.N. ad-hoc working group, the text is silent on how much money rich countries would give poor ones to cope with global warming over the short and long term.
And it provides a range of options for the key questions, including how developed and major emerging economies would cut their carbon output, and what would be the upper limit of global temperature rise that policymakers would be willing to tolerate.
It gives a lot of flexibility to the process, said John Coequyt, senior Washington representative for the Sierra Club.
Michael Zammit Cutajar, who drafted the six-page document, boiled down a 180-page negotiation text to focus on what the U.N.'s top climate official, Yvo de Boer, described as "the big picture."
It shows the outlines for a possible deal, in which industrial nations would collectively cut their emissions by 2020 by 25 to 45 percent compared with 1990 levels, while major developing countries would reduce theirs during the same period by 15 to 30 percent.
Together, the countries would cut emissions between 50 and 95 percent by 2050.
The European Union gave the talks a boost as well on Friday by pledging to provide $3.6 billion a year over the next three years to help poorer countries adapt to the impact of climate change -- from coping with flood and drought to avoiding deforestation.
Still, Friday featured the same sort of verbal fireworks that have dominated the talks for the past week.
U.S. special climate envoy Todd Stern rejected language requiring binding cuts of greenhouse-gas emissions for industrialized countries compared with voluntary ones by major emerging economies if they were not funded by the developed world.
The move signaled that the Obama administration is taking a harder line with China than Bush administration officials did just two years ago.
The United States is not going to do a deal without the major developing countries stepping up and taking action, said Stern, who also complained that the text did not do enough to make sure the cuts could be verified by outside observers.
Stern made his comments an hour after Chinese vice foreign minister He Yafei said America's top climate negotiator was either lacking "common sense" or being "extremely irresponsible" for saying earlier in the week that the United States would not help China financially to cope with global warming.
With the future economic trajectory of the world's major powers at stake, fault lines have erupted both within the developing world and between the industrial world and emerging economies.
The current battle is as much about saving individual economies as saving the planet, with China and the United States feuding over their respective obligations while poorer nations insist that the world's two dozen most influential countries are ignoring the scientific imperative to take bolder action.
Ricardo Ulate, a Costa Rican delegate, said it's not surprising that the major powers are fighting over who should bear the costs for curbing greenhouse gases, even as vulnerable countries have become more aggressive in seeking to hold the big emitters accountable for their actions.
This is clearly a game where a new economic hegemony is being developed, said Ulate, who also serves as the regional Mexico and Central America climate change adviser for Conservation International.
Some of the countries most vulnerable to the impact of climate change indicated they would continue to push for a legally binding treaty in Copenhagen, although most of the major participants say the talks will produce a political deal at best.
The Alliance of Small Island States, which has 43 members, produced a 24-page draft treaty proposal early Friday morning.
Artur Runge-Metzger, who heads international climate negotiations on behalf of the European Commission, said the push by small island nations has "put political pressure on the entire political process," in part because they are now unified and demanding action from emerging economies such as China and India.
The talks took on new urgency as delegates focused on the fact that they must resolve most of the outstanding issues before the heads of government arrive to strike a deal.
High-level officials such as Indian environment minister Jairam Ramesh and the Chinese vice minister stepped off planes and raced through the Bella Center's halls to closed-door meetings and news conferences so they could stake out claims that will be arbitrated over the next week.
The sheer sprawl of the gathering -- where 13,000 people move in and out of the convention center each day, guitar-playing activists put on nightly shows mocking the countries they think are selling out, and draft proposals are passed hand-to-hand on paper rather than via e-mail -- poses a challenge.
The intensity is only building: nearly all of the key ministers are now here, and as early as Wednesday 60 heads of government will be in Copenhagen.
We're getting into the big leagues, said Carlos Manuel Rodriguez, vice president for global policy at Conservation International.
The heavyweights are coming.
Britain’s first 140mph train to redefine that Monday feeling
At 5.13 on Monday morning a whistle will pierce the darkness to signal a train departure that marks a revolution for travel in Britain.
The first high-speed commuter train in the country will reach 140mph as it streaks from Ashford, Kent, to London St Pancras, covering the 58 miles in 38 minutes.
Lord Adonis, the Transport Secretary, will then be joined by Dame Kelly Holmes aboard the first Javelin commuter service out of London.
He hopes that the new service will eventually plug Britain into an international network of fast, reliable trains and connect the great conurbations of the Midlands, the North and Scotland to London.
Neglected backwaters would become thriving commuter towns, business travel times would be slashed and the shift from aircraft and cars to the railway would reduce national carbon emissions as well as easing congestion on the roads.
In theory, the three main political parties buy into this vision.
But the tens of billions of pounds needed to build a new national rail network, the inevitable planning battle and fears of environmental harm may yet put the brakes on Britain’s high-speed lines.
High Speed Two (HS2), a company created in January to provide the Government with a feasibility study, will hand its report to Lord Adonis on December 30, The Times has learnt.
It will provide him with a detailed route map of the next planned stage of the high-speed network.
The new line linking London to the West Midlands will be drawn to within five metres in urban areas and sites where the environmental impact may be contentious.
In open country, the plan will be drafted to within 25 metres of a final route.
HS2 is also expected to set out three options for a wider high-speed network running north.
Lord Adonis will respond in the spring.
The favoured option being put forward is a Y-shaped configuration in which a single high-speed line would run up to the West Midlands.
The line would split at or near Birmingham, with one branch running west of the Pennines to Manchester and Scotland and another running northeast to Sheffield, Leeds and Newcastle upon Tyne.
A single line would run into Scotland.
"It looks like it is going to be the best-performing option," a railway insider said.
Once complete, journey times between London and Edinburgh would be cut to 2 hours 40 minutes.
The first leg, which would not open before 2025, would allow passengers to travel between London and Birmingham in 49 minutes, compared with just over an hour at present.
The proposals would allow trains to travel at 250mph, making the British network the fastest in Europe.
The initial track is being designed to take trains 400m in length capable of carrying 1,100 people.
As many as 18 could operate each hour on a London-Birmingham line.
That means that a London terminal capable of handling 20,000 passengers an hour would be needed.
Given space constraints in the capital, it is expected that an existing station would be expanded to accommodate the high-speed network.
Rail industry experts say that only St Pancras International or Euston offer that potential.
Lord Adonis will announce whether or not he thinks the scheme should proceed, but lengthy public consultation and planning procedures mean that a final decision would not be made until after a general election.
Even if he does put the wheels in motion, the network would have to be built in sections.
Trains would at first be forced to run off high-speed lines on to the existing rails north of Birmingham, keeping journey times between London and Scotland above three hours.
That is seen as the crucial tipping point needed to ensure a switch from planes to trains, a benchmark for the rail revolution.
Taxpayers meet mortgage on Tory's £75,000 orangery
Alan Duncan, the frontbench Tory MP, charged the taxpayer thousands of pounds a year towards the cost of an orangery he built at his constituency home.
The party’s prisons spokesman, who was demoted by David Cameron for complaining that MPs were living "on rations", increased his mortgage by £75,000 to build an oak-framed extension to his second home in Rutland.
He was allowed to charge the extra interest, totalling hundreds of pounds a month, to the taxpayer.
The Commons authorities approved the claims at the time and they have not been queried by Sir Thomas Legg, who is conducting a review of members’ expenses. Last night Mr Duncan said the claims "couldn’t be cleaner or simpler".
Mr Duncan, one of the richest Members of Parliament, owns a two-storey house in a village in his Rutland and Melton constituency.
Houses near by have sold for almost a million pounds.
The ground floor comprises a kitchen, living room and dining room, but the fees office agreed that Mr Duncan needed more space.
Last year he added a conservatory to the house, described in plans as an "orangery".
Neighbours described it as a "glasshouse for entertaining".
Mr Duncan was not required to make any reference to the increased borrowing during a recent investigation by the Commons’ Standards and Privileges Committee into his previous mortgage arangements.
The committee cleared him last month of breaching the rules after an investigation into his expenses.
In 2004 Mr Duncan changed the legal security for a £271,406 mortgage from his London property to his constituency home, which he had bought in 1991, the year before he became an MP.
Documents released this week show that Mr Duncan was claiming about £1,400 a month in mortgage interest until March last year.
In April, his claims increased to more than £1,800 a month.
The interest rate on Mr Duncan’s RBS mortgage did not change in that time, suggesting that all the increase was to fund the £75,000 borrowing.
The RBS standard variable mortgage rate went down from 7.94 per cent in December 2007 to 4 per cent in March this year, where it remains.
The latest document release by the Commons authorities show that Mr Duncan was continuing to claim £1,250 a month this May.
Mr Duncan lost his job as Shadow Leader of the House in September after an undercover reporter filmed him saying that MPs had to survive "on rations" after the expenses scandal.
"Basically, it’s being nationalised, you have to live on rations and are treated like s**t."
He said: "I spend my money on my garden and claim a tiny fraction based on what is proper.
And I could claim the whole bloody lot, but I don’t."
The MP, a millionaire from his former career as an oil trader, was first challenged over his expenses in May when it emerged that he had claimed thousands of pounds for his garden, before agreeing with the fees office that this "could be considered excessive".
An activist dug a hole in the shape of a pound sign in Mr Duncan’s lawn in protest after it was revealed that he claimed £4,000 over three years.
Asked about the increased mortgage last night, Mr Duncan said: "It was for capital improvements approved both by the fees office and subsequently by Legg."
He added: "There is no issue of ducking and weaving or pushing the rules or anything.
It is absolutely straight down the line, within the rules, authorised and everything.
It just couldn’t in many ways be cleaner or simpler."
Come all ye faithful to see Brighton’s beach hut Advent calendar
Beach huts in Brighton have found a new lease of life for the winter months as an interactive Advent calendar.
Beyond, an alternative church group that encourages spiritual exploration through creativity, invited 24 owners to decorate their huts for each day in December, using Christmas carols as their theme.
The event started on December 1, with visitors allowed to view the latest hut from 5.30pm to 6.30pm each day, with mince pies and mulled wine laid on for free.
Carols chosen so far include I Saw Three Ships, O Come, O Come, Emmanuel and The First Noël, where the hut features the work of Janette Tozer, a local artist.
Martin Poole, 50, a TV marketing assistant from Hove, is a non-stipendiary clergyman within the Chichester diocese and the leader of Beyond.
He said: "We want to make religion more relevant to people in a post-Christendom society.
"Why do we as a Church expect people to come to a strange old building? It’s my feeling the Church should come to the people and celebrate in exciting ways.
"The idea of the beach hut Advent calendar began just as a conversation with some friends over dinner.
Brighton is such a fantastically creative and vibrant place and we are trying to try and represent that through spirituality."
