Civil rights group issues travel warning for Missouri The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People has put out an alert for people of color traveling to Missouri because of the state's discriminatory policies and racist attacks. "The NAACP Travel Advisory for the state of Missouri, effective through August 28th, 2017, calls for African American travelers, visitors and Missourians to pay special attention and exercise extreme caution when traveling throughout the state given the series of questionable, race-based incidents occurring statewide recently, and noted therein," the group's statement reads. A recent Missouri law making it harder for people to win discrimination lawsuits, as well as the state's law enforcement disproportionately targeting minorities prompted the group to issue the travel alert, the NAACP said. "You have violations of civil rights that are happening to people. They're being pulled over because of their skin color, they're being beaten up or killed," the president of the Missouri NAACP, Rod Chapel, told The Kansas City Star. "We are hearing complaints at a rate we haven't heard before." It is the first such warning that the organization has issued for a state in the US. The group cited incidents such as racial slurs against black students at the University of Missouri and the death of Tory Sanders, 28, a black man from Tennessee. Sanders died under questionable circumstances earlier this year after he ran out of gas while traveling through the state, and was taken into custody by Missouri police without being accused of a crime. The advisory also points to a recent report by the Missouri Attorney General's Office showing that black drivers in the state were 75 percent more likely to be pulled over than whites. "The advisory is for people to be aware, and warn their families and friends and co-workers of what could happen in Missouri," Chapel said. "People need to be ready, whether it's bringing bail money with them, or letting relatives know they are traveling through the state." Missouri recorded 100 hate crimes in 2015, according to the latest figures from the FBI's hate crime reporting program, ranking the state at 16th in the country in terms of the number of such violations. The travel warning is also a response to a new Missouri law that would make it more difficult to sue a business for housing or employment discrimination. Previously, the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) had issued travel advisories for Texas and Arizona after the states passed immigration enforcement laws requiring local law enforcement to detain people on immigration violations which the ACLU said would increase racial profiling. Travel warnings are usually issued by the State Department for other countries, but lately, advocacy groups have resorted to the measure in response to certain laws and trends inside the US.
Is nothing sacred? Now Trump's White House is targeting the Statue of Liberty The surest mark of regime change is when they start attacking the statues. Americans appreciate this as well as anyone - hence the carefully stage-manged toppling of Saddam Hussein in Firdos square in Baghdad in 2003. Stephen Miller, one of the key ideologues of the Trump regime, surely knew what he was doing when he took a symbolic axe to the Statue of Liberty in a heated argument with CNN's Jim Acosta over the president's proposals to drastically limit legal immigration. In fairness, Miller did not attack the statue itself. A horde of boat-trip owners and Liberty impersonators would have lynched him if he did. But he did attack its meaning, and in particular the meaning ascribed to it when Emma Lazarus's famous poem was added to its base in 1903, 17 years after the monument itself was completed. As Miller scolded Acosta: "I don't want to get off into a whole thing about history here, but the Statue of Liberty is ... a symbol of American liberty lighting the world. The poem that you're referring to, that was added later and is not part of the original Statue of Liberty." Miller is factually correct, but as he put it himself, this is not really about history. It is about the contemporary resonance of Lazarus's startling words, the only ones in which a state has appeared to invite not just any old immigrants, but the poorest of the poor: "Your tired, your poor, / Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, / The wretched refuse of your teeming shore." There has never been a time when the "wretched refuse" has been more visible on our screens. Miller was not engaging in literary criticism - he was making it clear that these people are not welcome in Trump's USA. This conflict about the meaning of a statue is part of a wider political and cultural war: it is really a conflict about the meaning of America. Lazarus - and her friends who campaigned to place her words at the base after her death - knew very well that they were engaging in a highly political act. The sculpture was intended to mark the connections between French and American republicanism by representing in a well-worn classical trope, the female embodiment of Liberty. Lazarus changed that meaning: in her poem the female figure is no longer abstract - she has a voice. And she gives herself a very different name: Mother of Exiles. The marrying of the poem to the image is a brilliant feminist coup and a devastating attack on American nativism. And just as Lazarus changed the meaning of the statue, rightwingers have long wanted to change it back. The great loudmouth Rush Limbaugh, a kind of John the Baptist for the coming of Trump, argued in 2010 that Liberty is not inviting anyone in, but is rather an early neocon, taking the American flame out to the benighted world: "Lady Liberty is stepping forward. She is meant to be carrying the torch of liberty from the United States to the rest of the world. The torch is not to light the way to the United States." Rather unusually, Limbaugh actually hit on something. The meaning of the statue is entirely a matter of the angle of perception. Lazarus's great imaginative act was to see it as it would be seen by exhausted, wretched but hopeful people on the decks of ships after long and often dreadful journeys. It is literally about seeing the world from the perspective of people seeking refuge and a chance to better their lives. Her statue speaks back to them the words of hope and welcome they need to hear. And of course, this is not the perspective Miller and Trump want ever to recognise. Their torch is meant not to light the way, but to inflame the hatreds that are their only source of power.
World Championships 2017: Neil Black praises Scottish members of Team GB Eilidh Doyle recalls a time when only two Scots made the GB team UK Athletics' performance director Neil Black says the 16-strong Scottish contingent in the World Championships squad will make "a massive contribution to the team." A record number of Scottish athletes have been selected for London 2017, which starts on Friday. Black believes "there's something special evolving" in Scotland and UK athletics must learn from that. "We embrace it and we're trying to understand it and we'll push on that until we work it out," Black said. "I speak to people in the Scottish Institute of Sport and they think it's something to do with what they've done. Scottish Athletics think it's something to do with what they've done. British athletics: it's something to do with what they've done. And the guy on the corner street, too. Whatever the combination of circumstances, it's absolutely brilliant." Several of the Scottish athletes are medal contenders, including Laura Muir and Andrew Butchart - who will race against Sir Mo Farah in the 5,000m, while Eilidh Doyle was voted by the squad to be team captain. "Eilidh is slightly modest. Her captain's speech was incredible," says Black. "A number of athletes, whether they were Scottish or wherever they live or train, walked out of that room feeling hugely proud and really motivated. The passion and real feeling that Eilidh naturally put into it were great." The Commonwealth silver medallist, who will compete in the 400m hurdles at her fifth World Championships, says it's "incredible" 16 Scots are in the British team. Scotland's previous best total of athletes at the worlds was seven, achieved in 1983 and 2015. Middle-distance runner Muir is leading the way, having set five British and two European records in the past year. She will go in the 1500m and the 5,000m. Chris O'Hare, who runs in the 1500m, is another Scot to watch, following a great season that included victory at the British Team trials and the Anniversary Games. Doyle remembers her first world championships, when the only other Scot in the team was Lee McConnell. The team captain says she's "hugely proud" of the fact so many of her compatriots have not only made the team, but, in some cases, will be challenging for medals and competing to make finals. "The special thing about being team captain is that it was voted for by the other members of the team, so that it was such a huge honour anyway but to know that your teammates have voted for you and chosen you made it extra-special for me," she added. "Obviously, I'm very proud of all the Scots who've made the team. It just shows how far we've come. And they're here as well-established athletes, athletes that are going to be looking to get on podiums. As for my captain's speech? Yeah, I think it went well. I just drew on the fact that we're very lucky in this situation in that we've got a home World Championships. So it's really just the importance of drawing on that home support and thriving on the fact that we're back at the Olympic Stadium. I'm getting a second chance to go out there and compete and it's just going to be such an amazing atmosphere out there."
Blocking critics from Facebook: Don't run for public office, if you can't take heat from voters The father of our country knew something about bad press. Americans loved George Washington, but it didn't take long for newspapers to start slamming him on everything from domestic policy to his political principles. He chafed at the criticism, sure. But he did not silence his critics. Because back in 1783, Washington said, "the freedom of Speech may be taken away - and, dumb & silent we may be led, like sheep, to the Slaughter." That brings me to Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan, who needs to work on being more like Washington. Hogan's staff has blocked and deleted the posts of at least 450 people who voiced their opinions on his official Facebook page. And the American Civil Liberties Union sued him for that earlier this week. The governor's staff dismissed the lawsuit as frivolous, and the online commentary was rich with a "who cares?" backlash. "It's only Facebook," plenty of folks said. But it matters. And it especially matters when it's a guy like Hogan. This is a Republican governor in an overwhelmingly Democratic state who is astonishingly popular. He has the second-highest approval rating of the nation's 50 governors. Hogan is not a reactionary hothead. He's shown a steady hand in leading his state and a stern adherence to principles. He's also been pretty deft at using Facebook as a primary means to connect with his constituents, playfully debuting his hairless head after chemo treatments on his page. So blocking people who come to the governor's page - which is a public forum, labeled as official and administered by staff members paid public tax dollars - is unnecessary and ultimately dangerous. In an interview with The Washington Post, Hogan spokeswoman Amelia Chasse defended the governor's actions, arguing that blocking the comments was nothing more than moderating them. But it's too easy to use the image of trolls or spammers or hateful folks lashing out online. The Post talked to some of the real people blocked by Hogan. And they're just that - real people talking to their elected leaders: a teacher, a business owner and a pastor, not trolls. They all said that their comments were respectful, thoughtful and not profane. The pastor quoted the Bible in his post, appealing to Hogan's Catholic faith. Attorney Lakshmi Sarma Ramani of Bowie, Md., wasn't hateful, but she asked about hate crimes. "I politely commented that I was disappointed in his lack of response to hate crimes and other recent news items," she wrote in the comment section of The Post's news story. "I also do not appreciate that idea that when a number of people comment on the same topic, they are immediately disregarded by some as a so-called collective effort, rather than recognized as a large group of concerned citizens." What the governor's staff called a "concentrated spam attack" others would probably call "advocacy." The Facebook era makes it easy to tailor a message by simply blocking a critic or deleting a negative comment. It's a lot cleaner than the old days, when doing the same would have required sending staff out to collect and burn newspapers with critical editorials or arresting and silencing protesters. But that's exactly what's happening, only digitally. Hogan isn't the first public official to be criticized for defanging Facebook and other social media. President Trump is being sued by Twitter users who were blocked from his Twitter feed. One of the first landmark rulings on this issue came down last week in Virginia. The chair of the Loudoun County Board of Supervisors violated the First Amendment, according to U.S. District Judge James C. Cacheris in Alexandria, when she banned a constituent from her Facebook page. And in Kentucky, Gov. Matt Bevin (R) also got a visit from the ACLU over his use of Facebook and Twitter. This shouldn't be so hard. In Washington's time, the era of affordable postage had an impact much like the Internet. The number of newspapers quadrupled between 1776 and 1800, and anonymous letter writers hammered his leadership. And even back then, Washington had anonymous trolls. People using the pseudonyms "Juricola," "Valerius," "Belisarius," and "Portius" all wrote letters to newspapers trashing Washington's decisions. Petitions criticizing his stand on the Treaty of Amity, Commerce, and Navigation with Britain overwhelmed his office, according to the historical documents collected by the online Papers of George Washington Project. But he did not silence them. Freedom of speech, dissent and discourse lie at the very foundation of our nation. And true leadership means accepting that.
Ronan Rafferty hopes for home comforts at Renaissance Club Former European No 1 Ronan Rafferty will be hoping for home comforts over the next three days as the Renaissance Club in East Lothian hosts the 25th edition of the Scottish Senior Open. The Northern Irishman, who led next door at Archerfield Links heading into the final round last year before losing out to Paul Eales, is attached to the new venue and is acting as tournament ambassador on behalf of the club's founder and CEO Jerry Sarvadi. "I watched Renaissance Club being built, and we're seeing it come to its glory with this event," said Rafferty. "The players will see this course at its finest, it is in fabulous condition. Jerry has done a fabulous job setting this place up. He's a keen advocate of this game and is proud of his achievement here. This is a great showcase for this course." Englishman Eales is looking forward to defending a championship for the first time despite winning on both the European Tour and European Challenge Tour in his 32-year career. "This does feel really special," said the Southport-based player. "I didn't get to defend the Extremadura Open because that was taken off the schedule the year after I won it. Coming back to this part of the world is magical. It's a wonderful place to play golf in. The memories from last year are coming back and it was special for me and my wife Sharon to win last year. It was a really special time and one we will always cherish." Making his return to action on home soil is Gary Orr, who joined the European Senior Tour after turning 50 earlier this year. This event will be his first Scottish appearance since the Aberdeen Asset Management Scottish Open in 2013. "It always means a little bit more when you're playing at home," said Helensburgh man Orr. "You want to do well; but you do feel that extra pressure. I've really enjoyed playing again and I've played some solid golf. I'm happy with how it's going so far." Joining the trio in the field are former Masters winner Ian Woosnam and Senior major champions Paul Broadhurst, Roger Chapman, Mark James and Mark McNulty. Orr and former Ryder Cup captain Sam Torrance are among six Scots in the field, the others being Andrew Oldcorn, Stephen McAllister, Bill Longmuir and Ross Drummond. Admission is free of charge, with car parking charged at £5 per car with one occupant and £10 per car with two or more occupants. All proceeds go to Prostate Cancer UK.
Poverty and Death in Indonesia's Land of Gold When Bardina Degei cooks dinner, she doesn't use a stove. She rarely even uses a pot. In her wooden home in Enarotali, the capital of Paniai regency in the restive Indonesian province of Papua, the housewife usually just places a sweet potato - known locally as "nota" - directly into the fireplace. After half-an-hour, the charred tuber is retrieved and devoured with eager, unwashed hands. Degei sits on the mud floor - she has no furniture - which is where she also performs her daily chores, such as washing clothes with murky water from the nearby swamp. A bucket in a roofless room serves as a latrine. As the youngest of her husband's four wives, she has been assigned no fields to tend. Polygamy is common here. Of course, working late can be dangerous: Most of the village men are unemployed and many drink heavily, plus there are the soldiers. "No one dares to walk around the village after 5 p.m.," she says. It's a rare glimpse of daily life in the highlands of Papua, a former Dutch colony that was absorbed into Indonesia in 1969 following a controversial referendum, when just 1,026 elders were forced to vote through a public show of hands before occupying troops. An existing movement agitating for independence against Dutch rule swiftly turned its ire against the Jakarta government, which maintains tight control over the region, barring foreign journalists or rights monitors. In 2003, the province was officially split into Papua and West Papua, with independent Papua New Guinea occupying the eastern part of the island. Enarotali is as remote as it is desolate; the journey here involves a 90-minute flight from the provincial capital Jayapura to Nabire, and then a stomach-churning five-hour drive by hire car. There is no public transport. The town of some 19,000 people consists of wooden houses ringed by bamboo fencing, corrugated iron roofs transformed by rust into varying tawny shades. Very few Indonesians have made the journey here, let alone journalists, and practically no foreigners. Before Christian missionaries arrived, Mee Pago Papuans worshiped a God named Uga Tamee. There were other changes, too. "We were not used to wearing these clothes," says Degei, indicating her vividly colored, hand-woven turban, dark shirt and a bright skirt. "Before, we only wore leaves on our bodies." Papua is Indonesia's poorest province, where 28% of people live below the poverty line and with some of the worst infant mortality and literacy rates in Asia. But it is also Indonesia's land of gold. The world's largest and most profitable gold mine, Grasberg, owned by Phoenix-based Freeport McMoran, lies just 60 miles from Paniai, a highland province around the size of New Jersey and home to 153,000 people. In 2015 alone, Freeport mined some $3.1 billion worth of gold and copper here. In addition, Papua boasts timber resources worth an estimated $78 billion. These riches are, however, a source of misery for Papuans, ensuring Indonesia's powerful military maintains a suffocating presence. A 2005 investigation in The New York Times reported that Freeport paid local military personnel and units nearly $20 million between 1998 and 2004, including up to $150,000 to a single officer. Papuan calls for greater autonomy threaten this golden goose, and are dealt with mercilessly. According to rights activists, more than 500,000 Papuans have been killed, and thousands more have been raped, tortured and imprisoned by the Indonesian military since 1969. Mass killings in Papua's tribal highlands during the 1970s amounted to genocide, according to the Asia Human Rights Commission. Indonesian police arrested more than 3,900 peaceful protesters in the region last year alone. We Will Lose Everything, a 2016 report by the Archdiocese of Brisbane, contains testimony of atrocities committed the previous year, such as extrajudicial executions, torture - rape and electrocution are especially popular, according to another report - and the brutal crushing of peaceful demonstrations. "It's difficult to count the number of victims as incidents happen every week," says Andreas Harsono, Indonesia researcher for Human Rights Watch. The screws have tightened as Papua's resources bring an influx of settlers from elsewhere in Indonesia. The province's 3.5 million population is 83% Christian, but the demographic is changing as Muslim economic migrants arrive from Indonesia's populous islands of Java, Borneo, Sumatra and Sulawesi. Javanese warung canteens sell fried chicken and gado-gado mixed-vegetables served with peanut sauce. Local people struggle to compete. "The migrants started to sell chicken and vegetables in the traditional market cheaper than the local Papuans," explains Abeth You, a 24-year-old Paniai native who moved to the provincial capital Jayapura for work. "It made the native Papuans - the mama-mama [the women] of Papua - lose their market." Indonesian President Joko Widodo, popularly known as Jokowi, vowed to address the inequalities and rights abuses in Papua during his election campaign in 2014. The former carpenter secured 27 of Papua's total 29 districts - including Paniai - on the way to the Presidential Palace in Jakarta. But precious little has changed in Papua, and today local people feel betrayed. "Our hearts have been broken because in 2014 we voted for Jokowi, with the expectation that he would fulfill our hopes for justice to be restored," You says. In fact, Paniai suffered a nadir just two months after Jokowi's October inauguration. On Dec. 7, 2014 a group of 11 children were outside singing Christmas carols in front of a bonfire in Enarotali when two Indonesian soldiers on a motorbike broke through the gloom. The startled children told them that they should turn on their headlights. One of the soldiers took umbrage at their tone and later returned with four soldiers, according to local Pastor Yavedt Tebai. The soldiers, who had been drinking, chased and beat the group with their rifle butts, said victims and witnesses. Then one of the soldiers fired into the group of children. One child, 16-year-old Yulianus Yeimo, was beaten so badly he fell into a coma. A couple of hours later, the nearby government Election Commission building was set ablaze, and things escalated the following day. About 1,000 young Papuan men, women and children gathered on a soccer field in front of the local police station and military command center to demand justice. They carried ceremonial hunting bows and performed the waita dance - running in circles and simulating birdsong - of Papua's Mee Pago tribe. Some protesters started hurling stones at police and military posts. As tempers grew more heated, an order was sent to the soldiers through internal radio: "If the masses offer resistance more than three times, shoot them dead," it said, according to an official document seen by TIME that has not been released to the local media. Yeremias Kayame, 56, the head of the Kego Koto neighborhood of Enarotali, saw the impending danger and appealed for calm, imploring the crowd to go back home. Nobody was in the mood to listen. "When I turned around I suddenly got shot in my left wrist," he told TIME on the porch of his brightly painted wooden house. Kayame still doesn't know who fired but says the bullet came from the ranks of amassed soldiers. "It was crowded, many shots were fired," he adds. Local man Alfius Youw was hit three times, according to his cousin who witnessed the shootings. "I ran to him and examined his body to make sure it was him," Yohanes, who like many Indonesians only goes by one name, told TIME somberly. "I saw he was dead ... I kissed him." The Papua Police Chief Inspector General Yotje Mende told reporters that his officers were only "securing" their station because it was under attack. "We have to defend ourselves when people threaten to kill us," Papua Police spokesperson, Commissioner Pudjo Sulistiyo said in 2015. "It's a matter of life and death." According to Human Rights Watch, five young protesters were killed and many more injured. News of the killings only filtered through to Jakarta the following day. Three weeks later, Jokowi gave an impassioned speech in Jayapura, where he expressed sympathies with the victims' families and vowed to address the historic abuses in Papua. "I want this case to be solved immediately so it won't ever happen again in the future," he said. Security Minister Wiranto said in October 2016 that he was setting up a non-judicial mechanism to settle historic human-rights violations. But the excuses started almost immediately. "Most of the violations occurred a long time ago. Some were in the '90s and in early 2000s. The point is we are committed to addressing these violations, but there are processes to go through," he said. Then Wiranto backtracked when speaking to TIME in Jakarta on June 5, saying he has no plans to establish a grievance mechanism in Papua. Instead, "All will be settled by law," he said. Wiranto, who the U.N. has indicted for "crimes against humanity" relating to more than 1,000 deaths during East Timor's bloody 1999 independence vote, said that 11 cases of human-rights violations in Papua have already been settled, including the Paniai incident. Families of the Paniai victims greeted such claims with grim incredulity. "I've been interviewed four times for the past three years, but there has been no progress at all," Yohanes says. "I'm tired." He says that years later, he still lives in fear. "I'm afraid," he says. "I'm afraid of being arrested by the military, afraid to be shot." His brother Yacobus echoed the view that people in Paniai are fearful of discussing the incident. He says he was beaten by the military after helping to bury four of the victims. "After burying the bodies, the military came looking for me," he says. The shootings haven't stopped. On Tuesday, Indonesian police shot at villagers in Paniai's neighboring Deiyai regency. One person died and 17 others were wounded, including children, during a confrontation between villagers and the manager of a construction company who refused to help transport an unconscious man to hospital. The man, 24-year-old Ravianus Douw who drowned while he was fishing in a nearby river, died on the way to hospital. Incensed villagers protested in front of the company's site office. Police said the villagers threw rocks at officers, who responded by firing warning shots. But locals say the mobile brigade (Indonesian paramilitary police) began shooting at the crowd, killing one. "We were so panicked, we are afraid there will be revenge," 29-year-old Dominggu Badii, who lives near the hospital and witnessed the injured being hurried in, tells TIME. "I have been hiding in my house for two days." The Deiyai parliament has called for the officers involved to be held to account and the police mobile brigade to be withdrawn from the area. Paniai has always been a troublespot for the Indonesian government. The lack of meaningful development feeds the discontent of the tribal Mee, Moni, Dani, and Damal peoples, who live sprawled across Papua's verdant central highlands. Many joined the Free Papua Movement (OPM), the rebel army that claims to defend the rights of the Papuans by launching sporadic attacks and kidnapping raids on Indonesian soldiers. Some of the top OPM leaders hail from Paniai, including Tadius Yogi and Daniel Yudas Kogoya. In response, thousands of people in Paniai have been arrested and arbitrarily detained by the military in recent years, under the guise of "safeguarding national sovereignty." Some never reappear. Among the people of Papua, Paniai is known as "a tragic, forgotten place." Poverty feeds the discontent. The little rice on sale in Enarotali is too expensive for locals to buy. Bread is just as out of reach. People here grow everything they eat: mainly nota plus some fruit and leafy vegetables. Farming is the job of the women, who each can maintain four or five fields of the sweet potato. They usually keep most of the harvest for the family, with the rest sold in the local market. Ten pieces of nota cost only 10,000 Indonesian rupiah (75 cents). Over time, economic inequalities have grown between the native Papuans and the new migrants, who have arrived in greater numbers since the opening of a new air routes to Nabire Airport. What few jobs exist typically go to the better-educated and wealthier migrants. Papuans rarely have the capital or the necessary skills to run their own businesses competitively. "The young people are not interested to stay in the village ... because there's no jobs or money here," says John Gobai, the chairman of the tribal council of Paniai. Isolation keeps the world's eyes off Papua. In addition, reporting restrictions for international media remain tight. Earlier this year, French journalists Franck Escudie and Basille Longchamp were deported from Papua for a "lack of coordination with related institutions" despite having been granted rare permission to film. According to Phelim Kine, Deputy Asia Director of Human Rights Watch, Jokowi's election campaign pledges to lift reporting restrictions to boost transparency and development have not been realized. "There are new hazards for foreign journalists attempting to report from Indonesia's restive easternmost provinces of Papua and West Papua: visa denial and blacklisting," he said in a statement. The lack of press scrutiny means international pressure on the Indonesian government has been largely limited to Papua's immediate neighbors. In March, six Pacific nations - Tonga, Nauru, Palau, Tuvalu, the Marshall Islands, and the Solomon Islands - urged the U.N. Human Rights Council to investigate the "various and widespread violations" in Papua, including the Paniai shooting. These same countries have historically backed the OPM. Indonesian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Arrmanatha Nasir shrugged off the group's allegations, telling journalists in Jakarta, "In Indonesia, a democratic system still applies and there's free media so it's hard for the evidence of human rights cases to be covered up." Local people want more foreign governments to take note. When an official delegation from the Netherlands, headed by the nation's human rights ambassador Kees Van Baar, visited Jayapura on May 4, local people broke their silence, beseeching, "We want freedom," according to a source who also attended the meeting but who asked to stay anonymous. Indonesia has another presidential election in 2019, but Papuans say they are unlikely to vote again for Jokowi. "Jokowi is a person who has good intentions, but he is surrounded by the people who are involved in the Paniai shooting," says Gobai, the tribal council chairman. He wants Jokowi to know that the Paniai people, aside from living under the looming threat of a rapacious military, wallow in destitution, with paltry education and health services. Gobai says the Paniai people, like other Papuans, consider their vote to Jokowi as a "debt" he must repay. "They don't need money, they just want justice," he says. Despite the threats and intimidation, families of the Paniai shooting victims carried out one last symbolic act of defiance: burying one victim's body on land just opposite the police and military station. Knowing that justice may never be served, at least they won't let those responsible forget their crimes. "A member of our family has been killed," says Yacobus, head bowed. "What else could we do?"
Fire engulfs Dubai's 'Torch' skyscraper for second time A fire ripped through one of the world's tallest residential towers in Dubai on Friday, forcing hundreds of occupants to flee the 337 metre-tall, 79-storey structure. It's the second blaze to sweep through the high-rise - which happens to be called the Torch tower - in just two years. The building was evacuated, no injuries were reported, and there was no immediate word on the cause of the blaze. "We were sleeping and we woke up to the fire alarm and people screaming. We ran down the stairs and it took us about 10 minutes to reach from the 50th floor," a resident who gave his name as George told Reuters. Dubai's civil defence authorities said firefighting squads put out the blaze at around 4.00 am local time (0000 GMT) and were cooling the building. The government said it was working on providing shelter for those affected. The incident may revive questions about the safety of materials used on the exteriors of tall buildings across the world. An investigation by the management of the Torch after its 2015 fire found that most of the damage was to the cladding, exterior panelling used for decoration or insulation. In the UK, police have said they believe the system of insulation and cladding panels on London's Grenfell Tower may have contributed to the rapid spread of a fire there in June in which some 80 people died.
More than 1 in 5 US travellers carry prohibited items onto aircraft, survey finds A survey of airline passengers found that more than 20 per cent had knowingly or unknowingly smuggled prohibited items past the US Transportation Security Administration checkpoints onto the aircraft, including at least 6 per cent who boarded the plane while unintentionally carrying prohibited knives or other bladed objects. Less than 1 per cent claimed that they discovered belatedly that they had mistakenly travelled with firearms, ammunition or explosives. The survey of more than 1000 people - which was conducted by a jet-chartering service Stratos Jet Charters Inc. - also found that younger travellers were more likely to flout the rules. Of the respondents who admitted knowingly trying to fly with something banned by the TSA, 19.7 per cent were millennials, compared with less than 15 per cent who were members of Generation X. The most common items whisked past TSA agents on purpose were food and liquids. More than 3 per cent admitted knowingly carrying bladed items past security, while 2.2 per cent of female respondents and 3.7 per cent of male respondents also acknowledged intentionally carrying prohibited drugs onto the aircraft. The company said it surveyed travellers around the country to find out how many had accidentally brought contraband through airport security and how many had done so on purpose. It's no surprise that the people most likely to haul contraband past security - knowingly or unknowingly - were those who fly the most. As the company points out, however, the TSA guidelines are somewhat complicated and confusing. People are often uncertain of what liquids they can carry or how much of them. So it's no surprise that the largest amount of stuff seized by the TSA happens to be forbidden liquids. For a time, people thought the TSA might be treating books as contraband. Liquids are allowed on domestic flights, but not on international ones.
EPA Chief Pruitt Backtracks on Delaying Obama-Era Rules to Reduce Emissions One day after getting sued by 15 states, Environmental Protection Agency chief Scott Pruitt reversed his earlier decision to delay implementation of Obama-era rules reducing emissions of smog-causing air pollutants. Pruitt presented the change as his agency being more responsive than past administrations to the needs of state environmental regulators. He made no mention of the legal challenge filed against his prior position in a federal appeals court. At issue is an Oct. 1 deadline for states to begin meeting 2015 standards for ground-level ozone. Pruitt announced in June he would delay compliance by one year to give his agency more time to study the plan and avoid "interfering with local decisions or impeding economic growth." Pruitt, who was Oklahoma's state attorney general prior to his appointment by President Donald Trump, has long served as a reliable opponent of stricter environmental regulations. Since arriving in Washington, Pruitt has repeatedly moved to block or delay regulations opposed by the chemical and fossil-fuel industries. Wednesday's sudden reversal is the latest legal setback for Pruitt's regulatory rollback agenda. Last month, a federal appeals court in Washington ruled the EPA administrator overstepped his authority in trying to delay implementation of an Obama administration rule requiring oil and gas companies to monitor and reduce methane leaks. In a statement issued Wednesday evening, Pruitt suggested his about-face on ozone standards simply reinforced the EPA's commitment to working with states through the complex process of meeting the new standards on time. "Under previous administrations, EPA would often fail to meet designation deadlines, and then wait to be sued by activist groups and others, agreeing in a settlement to set schedules for designation," said Pruitt, who sued EPA more than a dozen times in his prior job. "We do not believe in regulation through litigation, and we take deadlines seriously. We also take the statute and the authority it gives us seriously." Still, the EPA's statement said Pruitt may at some point once again use his "delay authority and all other authority legally available" to ensure regulations "are founded on sound policy and the best available information." Republicans in Congress are pushing for a broader rewrite of the ozone rules. A House bill approved last month seeks to delay implementation of the 2015 rules at least eight years. The measure has not yet been brought to a vote in the Senate. New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman, who led the coalition of states that sued the EPA this week, said the group intends to keep up the legal pressure. "The EPA's reversal - following our lawsuits - is an important win for the health and safety of those 6.7 million New Yorkers, and the over 115 million Americans directly impacted by smog pouring into their communities," Schneiderman said. New York was joined in the case by California, Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Iowa, Maine, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New Mexico, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont and Washington, and the District of Columbia. Ground-level ozone is created when common pollutants emitted by cars, power plants, oil refineries, chemical plants and other sources react in the atmosphere to sunlight. The resulting smog can cause serious breathing problems among sensitive groups of people, contributing to thousands of premature deaths each year. Public health advocates and environmentalists cheered Pruitt's surprising change of course. "It's disturbing how much pressure it took to get this commonsense step from the guy in charge of protecting the air we breathe," said Lori Ann Burd of the Center for Biological Diversity. "We've got to keep fighting the Trump administration's ideological crusade to pander to polluters and special interests."
Trump pressured Mexico on border wall payment according to leaked phone call transcripts Transcripts of phone calls between US President Donald Trump and leaders of Mexico and Australia have been leaked by the Washington Post. On 27th January in a phone call to Mexican president, Enrique Pena Nieto, Trump urged him to stop publicly saying he would not pay for a proposed border wall. The US President berated him for publicly denouncing the wall, reportedly saying to him "You cannot say that to the press." Trump launched his presidential campaign on a promise to build a wall along the US southern border and vowed to make Mexico pay for the project. Transcripts of his first call with Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull were also published revealing a tense exchange. Mr Trump told Mr Turnbull a deal for the US to take on refugees headed for Australia was "ridiculous," "rotten" and "stupid," insisting the deal, brokered under the Obama administration, would make him look like "a dope" after he had proposed a ban on refugee resettlement in the US. Mr Trump ended the call after telling Mr Turnbull "this is the most unpleasant call all day."
Moore's Ford Massacre: Activists Reenact Racist Lynching as a Call for Justice A 1948 Ford Mercury passed through a group of onlookers in rural Monroe, Georgia, and rumbled toward the small Moore's Ford Bridge. Before the car, which had four black passengers and a white driver, could reach the bridge, a group of white men with guns stepped forward to block its path. The leader of the mob - a middle aged man in a pinstriped suit - took a long drag on his cigar and peered through the windshield. Inside, the occupants reeled in fear. "We want that n----r Roger!" the man barked. "Get him out of the car!" Screams ripped through the silence as a young black man was dragged from the front passenger seat. Fortunately, this horrific scene, which played out on July 22, is just a reenactment. But when a noose is thrown around the neck of "Roger," nearly everyone in the audience let out very real gasps. Since 2005, civil rights activists have returned to the Moore's Ford Bridge to recreate the night two black couples - Roger and Dorothy Malcom, and George and Mae Murray Dorsey - were lynched by the Ku Klux Klan in 1946. No one has ever been charged with the murders. "It's mind boggling that all of these years, not a single person has been arrested - even though we see them in our communities; even though we know who they are," said Tyrone Brooks, who helps organize the reenactment. "It's a stain on a history, but it's a burden on our souls." Brooks is a 71-year-old former Georgia state congressman and lifelong civil rights activist. For him, the reenactment serves as a dramatic call to action and an annual reminder to the Monroe community that an injustice has never been corrected. "We want prosecution, we want closure, we want healing, we want reconciliation, but we have to have justice first," he said. "We can't get to healing and reconciliation until we get justice." A coroner places a sheet over the body of one of the victims of the Moore's Ford lynching on July 27, 1946. According to FBI files obtained by NBC News, more than 50 men from Monroe and the surrounding counties were suspected in the lynching. But not one was ever prosecuted. Though the suspects have remained at large for decades, civil rights activists say the twin motivations for the lynchings were always well known throughout town: politics and sex. In April 1946, a Supreme Court ruling enabled black citizens in Georgia to cast ballots for the first time during the primary race later that summer. Around the same time of the election, according to the FBI, black sharecropper Roger Malcom stabbed Barnett Hester, a white landowner, during a fight - ostensibly over a woman. Brooks said the town rumor was that Hester had been sleeping with Malcom's wife, Dorothy, and that the baby she was carrying was not her husband's. On July 25, 1946, Loy Harrison, a prominent white landowner, paid $600 to bail Malcom out of jail, according to the FBI. He was accompanied to the prison by Dorothy, and their cousins, Mae Murray and George Dorsey. But, driving away from the jail, as they approached Moore's Ford Bridge, a lynch mob surrounded the car. "As it turns out it was Harrison who set up and ordered the murders," one FBI report concludes. "It is also apparent that there was a conspiracy among state and local law enforcement, who not only took part in the murders, disposed of evidence and concealed the identity of witnesses." Brooks put it more succinctly. "It was a voting rights massacre," he said. "They were all killed to send a message to black people in this community: 'If you register and if you vote, this is what will happen to you.'" For nearly a decade, Cassandra Greene has directed the annual reenactment of the Moore's Ford Bridge lynchings. Her performance is graphic, gripping and grounded in a kind of deep racism that many would like to believe no longer exists in America. It's difficult to watch, and even more difficult to look away, but Greene said that's the point. "We don't want to talk about the lynching because it makes us face the ugliness in all of us," she said. "But I can't build a relationship with you, if you won't hear me, or hear what I've been through." Rehearsals for this year's production began in June, and on the first day nearly 30 actors - a dozen white and the rest black - crowded into a room and listened as Greene launched into a well-rehearsed overview of the play. Wade Marbaugh serves as Greene's co-director. He's played the part of the head Klansman for years, but he said the role never gets any easier. "I feel dirty because this is not who I am," said Marbaugh. "But I think it's very important to keep this history alive because we don't want to go back to those times." Across the room, actors Darrius Bradshaw and Nick Rascona, who play Roger Malcom and Barnett Hester, rehearsed their lines. The play begins with Malcom shouting and shoving Hester, livid that he's been sleeping with his wife, Dorothy. "I said n---a, get off my property!" Rascona fires back. There's a beat. And then everyone (at least all the black actors) bursts into laughter. Greene laughs the hardest. "What?!," Rascona asked. He's alarmed, confused. Did I go too hard? "No," Greene said through chuckles. "I just don't think white people back then said 'n---a.'" "Yea," one of the other black cast members quipped. "You have to hit the hard 'R.'" And just like that the energy in the room shifts; a sense of camaraderie replaces the discomfort. Everyone is dedicated to getting this right, not only for the sake of the play, but also for the memory of the four people killed. The scene begins again. This time, when Rascona says the N-word, it's sharp and emphatic. Absolutely no one laughs. The reenactment ends violently and quickly. There's screams, gunfire and then, silence. A woman dressed in funeral black, stands over the actors bodies and performs Billie Holiday's mournful eulogy, "Strange Fruit." Her voice breaks on every other word. A hundred yards back, a group of about four dozen spectators wipe sweat and tears away from their eyes. The audience is almost evenly split between black and white. One couple has traveled from Ithaca, New York, to see the performance, many are from just down the road. They've all weathered Georgia's oppressive humidity for the nearly eight hours as Brooks lead them on a pilgrimage to the grave sites of the Malcoms and Dorseys. Up until this point, the murders have remained an anecdote, but now, standing on the same land where the lynchings took place, the air feels haunted. As the final notes of the song fade, Greene invites the crowd to move closer and inspect the bodies. Children crouch by their heads, take in the fake blood and still bodies, and whisper to each other. "They're not really dead," one little boy mutters, as if to remind himself. After a few minutes Greene thanks the crowd, and suddenly it's over. The actors throw off the lynching rope and wipe away tears. Bradshaw hugs Marbaugh, the man in the suit who played the head Klansman. Nick Rascona hugs two of his castmates, and then breaks down crying in their arms; the emotional toll of the performance finally getting to him. "It's okay," one of the women whispers. "We know that's not what's in your heart. You did this for a reason." Later, the audience sits down to dinner with the actors. At one table, a white couple from Atlanta chats animatedly about the reenactment with a black couple they just met. Denise Duplinski struggled to find words for how the performance made her feel. "It's hard to hear those horrible awful words, and deeds ... come out of people that look like you and who do it because they look like you," she said. "What this really does to me is make me think that lynchings are still going on," she added, "they're just called police shootings now." Across the room, Tyrone Brooks holds court at his table, eating and reminiscing about civil rights. He said he's already begun planning for next year's performance. "The reenactment is inspirational in a way because it describes the horror of what we endured, but it also is a teaching moment," he said. "It's like, if you don't learn from this, it can happen again. Those who don't study their history, those who do not know their history, are doomed to repeat it."
Pearson cuts another 3,000 jobs, slashes dividend to revive business British education group Pearson said on Friday it would cut another 3,000 jobs and slash its interim dividend by 72 per cent as it started another restructuring programme to tackle the pressures facing its business. The job cuts, which Chief Executive John Fallon said will mostly come late in 2018 and in early 2019, are in addition to 4,000 roles lost in its previous restructuring. Pearson announced a plan to cut costs by another 300 million pounds ($394-million U.S.) in May in a third cost-cutting programme to try to revive a business hit by the rapid move to digital learning. The company, which agreed to sell its stake in Penguin Random House to partner Bertelsmann last month, said its outlook for the year was unchanged after it reported a 1 per cent rise in underlying sales in the first half to 2.05 billion pounds.
Kabul convoy attack: Nato soldier killed in suicide blast A suicide bomber has attacked a military convoy in the Afghan capital, Kabul, killing a Nato soldier and wounding several others, officials say. Five soldiers and an interpreter were injured, a Nato statement said. Unconfirmed local reports say three civilians also died in the incident in the city's Qarabagh district. The bombing is the latest violence to have hit Afghanistan this month - on Tuesday more than 30 people were killed in a mosque blast in Herat. On Monday a suicide bomber killed two people near the Iraqi embassy in Kabul. A Nato statement said that Thursday evening's blast happened when a joint patrol with the Afghan army was attacked by a "personnel-borne improvised explosive device." The statement said that all those injured are in a stable condition and are being treated at the US military hospital at Bagram airfield. Correspondents say the growing strength of the Taliban and the group known as so-called Islamic State (IS) in Qarabagh is a major source of concern to Nato forces based in nearby Bagram. According to the United Nations, Afghanistan saw at least 1,662 civilian deaths in the first half of 2017, with about 20% of those in the capital. At the end of July, a suicide car bomb killed at least 30 people in a mainly Shia district of Kabul. The Taliban said they had carried out that attack. On 31 May, a huge bombing in the centre of the city killed more than 150 people, the deadliest militant attack in the country since US-led forces ousted the Taliban from power in 2001. The violence underlines the precarious security situation in Afghanistan as US President Donald Trump weighs up whether to increase the number of US troops aiding the military and police in the country. Correspondents say the suicide bombings in Kabul in recent weeks have also created a crisis of public confidence in the government, its policies and in particular the reputation of President Ashraf Ghani.
EPA reverses decision to delay smog rule after lawsuits The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency reversed a decision to delay an Obama-era rule requiring states to curb smog-causing emissions, one day after 15 states sued the agency over the move. The EPA announced the decision to go ahead with the so-called "2015 Ozone Designations" late on Wednesday, saying it showed the agency's commitment to working with states. "We believe in dialogue with, and being responsive to, our state partners," EPA Chief Scott Pruitt said in a statement. Pruitt in June had announced the EPA's intention to delay the ozone designations - in which existing smog pollution is measured in parts of the country to determine where cuts must be made to meet tougher air quality standard - by one year to October 2018. A group of 15 mostly Democratic states, along with the District of Columbia, filed a suit on Tuesday saying the effort was illegal. The administration of President Donald Trump has been seeking to roll back a wide array of environmental regulations imposed by former President Barack Obama, as part of a broader agenda Trump says is aimed at sparking economic growth. But the efforts have triggered pushback by Democratics and conservation groups who are concerned about the impact of greater emissions on public health. The EPA's website says breathing air containing ozone "can reduce lung function and increase respiratory symptoms" like asthma.
Mikey Garcia and Vasyl Lomachenko meet for the first time, discuss a possible showdown Vasyl Lomachenko and Mikey Garcia, who should be on a collision course to stage the most compelling boxing match under 147 pounds in the near future, met each other for the first time Thursday. They were in separate rooms at ESPN offices in Los Angeles until Garcia, the unbeaten World Boxing Council lightweight champion, walked down the hallway to greet Lomachenko, the World Boxing Organization super-featherweight champion. After Garcia's victory by unanimous decision over former four-division world champion Adrien Broner on Saturday on Showtime, both fighters are members of the top-five pound-for-pound list. Garcia extended his right hand and said, "How you doing, champ? Best of luck to you." Lomachenko defends his belt against Miguel Marriaga on Saturday night at 7 on ESPN. As the pair posed for photos, Lomachenko manager Egis Klimas noted that a potential showdown between the fighters would be "perfect sizing." "I'm a former featherweight," Garcia reminded. "I moved up for Broner [at 140 pounds], but I'm not that big. I'm small for 140. I want to come down to lightweight. And he's got to move up to lightweight [135 pounds] and then we have a fight. That's what the fans are asking for. Let's give them that." Lomachenko agreed. "Boxing needs this fight." Klimas asked if it should be on pay-per-view, part of a strategy he has to have Lomachenko fight a 135-pound debut bout later this year to set up a date next summer with Garcia (37-0, 30 knockouts), who also has interest in fighting the Jorge Linares-Luke Campbell winner following their Sept. 23 lightweight title bout at the Forum. "This fight could be on pay-per-view because all the fans have been asking about it," Garcia said, later expressing openness to fighting on whatever network offers the best financial package. "We're the main names. No other names can generate that kind of attention. Whenever they're ready ... ." Garcia said he appreciates Lomachenko as "a tremendous fighter," and may attend his Saturday bout. But Lomachenko paused at lavish praise for Garcia, saying he thought the three-division champion from Riverside looked "very slow, sorry Mikey ... you wanted the knockout." Garcia said the focus was to show punching strength, then box. They both said they can feel the momentum building for their own bout. "This is the fight to be made. No other fight creates as much attention and buzz. I'm more than happy to work at it," Garcia said. Said Lomachenko: "I've waited for the top fighters, and this is Mikey. It will be a great fight."
New results of Sweden's asylum age assessment tests released The latest results of tests on asylum seekers in Sweden subjected to a new method of medically assessing their age show that over 80 percent tested were judged to be older than 18, but not everyone has faith in their accuracy. Sweden's national Forensic Medicine Agency (Rättsmedicinalverket) started carrying out the tests earlier year. They are designed to make age assessment during the asylum process more accurate after the Swedish Migration Agency (Migrationsverket) was criticized for failings in assessing the correct age of some refugees claiming to be underage. To date Migrationsverket has sent 6,880 cases to be tested, and the Forensic Medicine Agency has now released the results of a total of 2,481 tests from the period between mid March until July 31st, 2017. Eighty percent (2002) were judged to be 18 or over, while in a further 25 cases the Forensic Medicine Agency judged that the subject was "possibly 18 or over." In 432 cases the conclusion was that the person is "possibly under 18." The tests are only carried out in cases where the person's age is in question. According to Johan Göransson from the Forensic Medicine Agency, the results are consistent with previous months. "We see no big difference in the statistics from previous months, the numbers are quite consistent," he told The Local. The high proportion of cases judged to be over 18 does not necessarily mean that the asylum seeker lied about their age. In May, the agency released the results of 581 tests and said that there were 442 instances that "suggest the person examined is 18 years or older." When newspaper Svenska Dagbladet investigated the 581 results released however it found that in 243 of the cases the person had openly stated that they turn 18 this year. The method of medical age assessment, which consists of taking X-rays of wisdom teeth and MRI scans of knee joints, then having dentists and radiologists analyse them, has also been criticised in some quarters. One sceptic is Karolinska Institute endocrinologist Claude Marcus, whose work includes assessing the biological maturity of people to see if they went through puberty earlier or later than usual. "I've had reason to think about this, and I don't think the type of measurement being used should be. Judging biological age in this way is very uncertain. If we can't say it for sure we shouldn't pretend that we can," he told newspaper Metro. The Forensic Medicine Agency's Göransson defended the accuracy of the tests however: "In general you can say that the risk of inaccurately judging a child to be an adult is small. The biggest risk is if the person is just under 18, in which case it's around 10 percent."
West Virginia governor announces he's switching parties The Democratic governor of West Virginia, Jim Justice, announced Thursday night at a rally with President Trump that he's switching parties. "Like it or not like it, the Democrats walked away from me," Gov. Justice said. "Today I will tell you with lots of prayers and lots of thinking ... today I will tell you as West Virginians, I can't help you anymore being a Democratic governor." The rally erupted in cheers. "So tomorrow, I will be changing my registration to Republican," Justice added. "As a coach, I would tell you it's time to run another play." Mr. Trump promised earlier a big announcement at the West Virginia rally. Mr. Trump won West Virginia by 42 points, and Justice did not endorse the Democratic nominee, Hillary Clinton. Justice, who is the only billionaire in the state, according to Forbes, was elected in 2016. Forbes notes that he owns coal mines in five states, having inherited a coal business from his father. He's worth about $1.59 billion. Meanwhile, the Republican National Committee released a statement Thursday night saying "Governor Justice's party switch is another blow to a Democratic Party that would rather obstruct than work to make our country great again." "With only 15 governorships and control of the fewest state legislatures in history, Governor Justice's announcement is just the latest rejection of a party that is leaderless from top to bottom and unable to find a positive, unifying message," RNC chairwoman Ronna McDaniel said in a statement to CBS News.
Coe praises 'candid' Russian apology for doping scandal Global athletics boss Sebastian Coe praised what he described as a candid apology from Russia over a doping scandal on Thursday but reiterated it was not the moment for the country to be readmitted to the sport. Russia's athletics boss Dmitry Shylakhtin told an IAAF Congress, held on the eve of the World Athletics Championships, that his country's ban from the sport was correct and that he was determined to fight doping. He said he was sorry to "all athletes who have had gold and silver medals snatched from them at competitions." Despite his comments, the IAAF Congress voted in favor of maintaining the ban, imposed in November 2015 after a World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) report found evidence of state-sponsored doping in Russia. "I thought it was a very candid response today, a very candid presentation," IAAF president Coe told reporters. "The whole Council and the whole Congress was pleased ... that the Russian federation recognized themselves that they have been through some pretty torrid times and are doing everything possible to make sure the federation is reengineered." Coe said he was also "pleased" that Russia accepted the criteria for its reintroduction. "I think it was a very constructive day and I think progress is being made, but the Congress supports the recommendations of the task force that this was not the moment to reinstate Russia," said Coe. "We need to do everything over the next few months to normalize this situation. The guiding principle has always been that we wanted to separate the clean athletes from the tainted system," he added Nineteen Russian athletes will be competing as neutrals at the World Athletics Championships which start in London on Friday, having met strict IAAF criteria. The head of the IAAF's Task Force, Rune Andersen, said on Monday that Russia had yet to meet several of the criteria for reinstatement. Drug-testing was still insufficient and banned coaches were still operating freely, he told reporters in London after a presentation to the IAAF Council.
How soccer's financial rules impact Neymar's move to Paris Rules aimed at preventing unfettered spending by European soccer clubs will not disrupt Neymar's world-record transfer from Spain's Barcelona to France's Paris-Saint Germain. Any consequences will come further down the line for Paris Saint-Germain from UEFA, the governing body overseeing the European game which has the power to ban teams from the prestigious Champions League tournament. Financial Fair Play rules launched by UEFA in 2011 mean that PSG will eventually have to show that Neymar's transfer was funded without incurring huge losses. Barcelona has been paid 222 million euros ($262 million) just to buy the Brazilian out of his contract and Neymar will command a salary that will run to tens of millions of dollars a year. Here are some of the financial aspects of Neymar's move to France. PSG can certainly stump up the cash to sign Neymar and add him to a galaxy of other stars, given the team's funding from the energy-rich ruling family of Qatar. Clubs are allowed to spend heavily on acquiring players but they have to counterbalance that with legitimate sources of income, allowing them to approach break-even on their football-related business. FFP was conceived by Michel Platini after his election as UEFA president in 2007. The former France player believed that clubs who ran up huge debts in their pursuit of success were effectively cheating and risking ruin if banks or owners withdrew their support. In 2011, FFP shifted from focusing on clubs' debts to monitoring their losses instead. The change meant that the business model Roman Abramovich initially used at Chelsea in 2003 - buy a club with potential, and then spend heavily to improve the squad and build a global brand - become a tougher proposition. During the current three-year FFP assessment period that runs through 2018, clubs can incur losses of 30 million euros. And despite Platini being ousted in disgrace from the presidency in 2015, his UEFA successor Aleksander Ceferin is still committed to deterring excessive spending. "Certainly FFP is not dead and we will, for sure, reinforce the rules going forward," Andrea Traverso, who oversees FFP at UEFA, told The Associated Press last week. Although PSG will have paid Neymar's buyout clause in one lump sum, it can spread the amount for accounting purposes over the length of his contract. Neymar has signed a five-year deal, so the transfer fee could be shown as a 44.4 million-euro cost in the annual accounts for the next five years. The first wave of FFP sanctions in 2014 saw PSG, along with Abu Dhabi-owned Manchester City, hit with the heaviest sanctions. PSG was handed a fine of 60 million euros (then $82 million) - that was later reduced to 20 million euros - and ordered to limit its Champions League squads to 21 players for the 2014-15 season instead of the normal 25. UEFA is on the lookout for clubs who might try to outwit its financial regulators by inflating their income through companies linked to a club's owners. While a Qatari company could sponsor PSG, if the value of the sponsorship was deemed to exceed standard market rates UEFA would not allow it to count as legitimate income. That is what happened in 2014 when UEFA ruled that the value of the Qatar Tourism Authority sponsorship of PSG was inflated. It has been reported that part of Neymar's PSG earnings could come via payments from the 2022 World Cup organizing committee in Qatar. But PSG and Qatar 2022 have denied that Neymar will become a World Cup ambassador and such a maneuver would be easy for UEFA's regulators to expose. Past sanctions slapped on PSG means that UEFA will be even more watchful of any attempt to circumvent the rules. UEFA has not been in pre-emptive discussions with PSG about Neymar's transfer, people familiar with the situation said Thursday. They spoke to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity as they were not authorized to discuss the PSG situation. The last published accounts show that PSG made a profit of more than 10 million euros in 2015-16 on a turnover of 542.4 million euros. Accounts for the last financial year are yet to be published. PSG expects Neymar's arrival to be a boon for sponsorship deals, merchandising and jersey sales. The club expects turnover would grow by at least 30 percent on the back of the signing. Clearly irritated to see one of soccer's biggest players leaving, the Spanish league tried to stymie Neymar's move, claiming that PSG will be breaching FFP. "It is a clear case of 'financial doping', with the club and the state," La Liga President Javier Tebas told Spanish newspaper AS, referring to Qatar's ultimate ownership of PSG. Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger, whose club is owned by an American sports tycoon, shares La Liga's reservations about a state funding a club. "It is the consequence of the ownerships and that has completely changed the whole landscape of football in the last 15 years," Wenger said Thursday. "Once a country owns a club, everything is possible. It becomes very difficult to respect the Financial Fair Play because you can have different ways or different interests for a country to have such a big player to represent a country."
Nostalgia Goes Niche in "Wet Hot American Summer" and "Comrade Detective" So this iteration of the story is simultaneously nostalgic for the characters' '80s glory days; for the '90s grunge era (around when the masterminds David Wain and Michael Showalter made the sketch comedy "The State" for MTV); and for itself - that is, for 2001, before its stars, like Elizabeth Banks, Amy Poehler and Paul Rudd, went on to bigger things. As a cultural artifact, it's both a sendup and embodiment of our Facebook-enabled era of permanent reminiscence. But as a franchise, it feels like it's running out of time. "First Day of Camp" worked surprisingly well, not just because of its absurdist humor (it included an origin story for a talking can of vegetables, voiced by H. Jon Benjamin). By doubling down on the core gag - middle-age actors playing horny kids coming of age - it made the impossibility of recapturing the past part of the joke. "Ten Years Later," with its adults now playing adults, is less emotionally rooted and its parody more scattershot, including a riff on '90s stalker flicks like "The Hand That Rocks the Cradle." At one point a character rummages through an Apple Powerbook, some in-line skates and "a bunch of other things from 1991." Many of the core stories are the same. Sweet-hearted Coop (Mr. Showalter), now a novelist, still hasn't gotten over Katie (Marguerite Moreau). Victor (Ken Marino) still hasn't lost his virginity. And there's another battily villainous plot involving Ronald Reagan (also Mr. Showalter), now abetted by George H. W. Bush (a well-inhabited impression by Michael Ian Black). As always, the best part of the franchise is the digressions. It's especially fun to see the forever-young Mr. Rudd, sporting Matt Dillon's soul patch from "Singles," whose former big-man-on-camp Andy now feels like a geezer. It's the moments of random lunacy that might power this franchise on, like a kind of recursive "Seven Up!" series, until it reaches what I assume will be its logical conclusion: "Wet Hot American Summer: Twenty Years Later," whose last scene will have the gang going to see the movie premiere of "Wet Hot American Summer." "Comrade Detective" on Amazon, meanwhile, appeals to a different brand of nostalgia: the Cold War revivalism of "The Americans," the film "Atomic Blonde" and even "GLOW," with its East versus West wrestling iconography. The comedy, created by Brian Gatewood and Alessandro Tanaka, with Rhys Thomas directing, purports to be found TV: a Romanian 1980s buddy-cop drama about two Bucharest officers fighting for truth, atheism and the Marxist-Leninist way. The lead roles - hard-boiled Gregor and idealistic Iosef - are played by Florin Piersic Jr. and Corneliu Ulici, their dialogue dubbed in English by Channing Tatum (also an executive producer) and Joseph Gordon-Levitt. It's a brilliant idea. But it's not much more than an idea. There are some fine sight gags (the police pass the time watching chess on TV as Americans might football). And the roster of famous voice-over actors - among them Jenny Slate, Nick Offerman, Mahershala Ali and Chloë Sevigny - makes for a decent game of spot-the-voice. But "Comrade Detective" is so committed to the verisimilitude of a hamfisted propaganda drama - a killer wearing a Reagan mask is involved - that it often plays like one. At six long episodes, it drags, and the comedy isn't fast or frequent enough. Edited to a tighter length, "Comrade Detective" might deliver better on its agitprop satire, as when Gregor and Iosef repeatedly visit the American Embassy, whose lobby is always occupied by two fat men wolfing down a pile of hamburgers. The message, for the imagined communist audience, is that Western culture can turn anything into fodder to binge. The fictional Romanian creators were not wrong: We even do it with our own recent history, and theirs.
Bank of England to keep interest rates at 0.25% The Bank of England is expected to announce later that interest rates will remain unchanged after lacklustre economic growth and easing inflation dampened speculation over a hike. The Bank of England has warned economic growth will remain "sluggish" as it kept interest rates on hold amid a tightening squeeze on family incomes. Policymakers on the Bank's Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) voted 6-2 to keep rates at 0.25%, with fewer members this month calling for a rise as lacklustre economic growth has weakened support for a hike. In its quarterly inflation report, the Bank cut its forecasts for growth to 1.7% in 2017 and 1.6% in 2018 and cautioned the squeeze on household incomes would continue, with inflation still expected to surge close to 3% in the autumn. But it signalled rate hikes will be needed over the next few years to rein in Brexit-fuelled inflation and said borrowing costs may need to rise by more than expected in financial markets. Members also voted to withdraw part of the mammoth economy-boosting package unleashed a year ago in the aftermath of Brexit. It will call time on the Term Funding Scheme to offer cheap-finance to banks from next February, although it said it was now expected to offer £15 billion more under the scheme - at £115 billion. In minutes of the rates decision, the Bank said: "In the MPC's central forecast, gross domestic product (GDP) remains sluggish in the near-term as the squeeze on households' real incomes continues to weigh on consumption." On rates, it reiterated that "some tightening of monetary policy" would be needed to cool inflation and by a "somewhat greater" extent than markets expect. Markets are currently forecasting the first rise in the third quarter of next year and another in 2020. But the Bank stressed that any hikes would be "gradual" and "limited." The Bank's downgraded growth forecasts for this year and next compare with the 1.9% and 1.7% predicted in May. It maintained its forecast for growth of 1.8% in 2018. Sterling fell against the dollar and the euro following the news. The pound was 0.5% down at 1.31 US dollars and fell 0.4% to 1.11 euros. The no-change decision comes after recent disappointing growth figures have dampened mounting expectations of a hike, with GDP edging up to 0.3% in the second quarter from 0.2% in the previous three months. Growth is likely to remain at 0.3% in the third quarter, although it will start to pick up slightly at the end of the year, according to the Bank. Its latest inflation report offered little cheer for households being hit by soaring inflation and paltry pay rises as it said the squeeze will get worse before it gets better. It added that monetary policy "cannot prevent" the hit to incomes over the next few years, but expects wages will recover "significantly" towards the end of its three-year forecast. The economy is also set for a boost from surging demand for British goods thanks to the weak pound, which will offset some of the lower consumer spending. The decision comes a year after rates were cut to 0.25% last August following the shock EU referendum vote, which sent the pound slumping. The Bank estimates it will likely take four years to fully feed through to prices and the economy. Prior to the Bank's latest rates verdict, there had been growing clamour for a rate rise as inflation ramped up pressure on hard-pressed households, with three policymakers calling for an increase to 0.5% in July. Inflation eased back to 2.6% last month from 2.9% in June, although the Bank said this was expected and will pick up once again over the coming months. The Bank said the overshoot relative to its 2% target was "entirely" down to the weak pound. Andrew Montlake, director at Coreco Mortgage Brokers, said: "Given the recent fall in swap rates, the mortgage market looks set to become ever more competitive once more as lenders clamour for business and look to end the year in positive fashion. The market looks particularly good for those who may be coming to the end of their existing deals as re-mortgages, many with fee-free options as well as low rates, become ever more popular."
NHS to prescribe controversial HIV drug to 10,000 Patients will be able to access a 'transformative' HIV prevention treatment from September following a High Court battle over funding the drug on the NHS. NHS England announced that pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP), a pill taken before sex which has been shown to reduce the risk of infection in high-risk individuals by around 86 per cent, will now be provided by the health service through an initial three-year trial to an estimated 10,000 people. It agreed to fund the trial after the Court of Appeal upheld a High Court ruling last year, which said the NHS had the power to pay for PrEP despite its claims that local authorities should fund it. The move announced on Thursday was hailed as a 'major new intervention' by NHS England chief executive Simon Stevens while the National Aids Trust (NAT) described it as a 'pivotal moment'. Sexual health clinics in London, Brighton, Manchester, Liverpool and Sheffield will be among the first to start enrolling people, with more clinics joining in October before full implementation across England by April 2018. Pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) is a course of HIV drugs taken before sex to reduce the risk of getting HIV. Trials have shown PrEP significantly reduces HIV transmission among those at-risk of infection. Taking PrEP before sex means there is just enough of certain drugs in a person's body to prevent an HIV infection taking hold. Such drugs can be taken every day or as soon as two hours before having sex. Those eligible for the treatment include gay or bisexual men, transgender people and those with HIV-positive partners who are not successfully receiving treatment. Clinics will identify eligible participants who consent to the trial, including men, women, transgender people, and individuals who have a partner whose HIV status is not known to be controlled by anti-retroviral treatment. People living and registered with a GP in England will also be able to enrol for potential participation at their local participating sexual health clinic. The programme will cost £10 million and NHS England signed a contract to source the drugs this week following an international competitive procurement. The trial is designed to assess the full potential of PrEP by gathering clinical evidence on how it is targeted, taken up, and implemented on a large scale. Mr Stevens said: 'This major new intervention should complement and supercharge the wide-ranging and increasingly successful effort to prevent HIV. It's another milestone in more than three decades' worth of progress in tackling one of humanity's major health challenges.' Deborah Gold, chief executive at NAT (National Aids Trust), said: 'This is a pivotal moment in the fight against HIV. PrEP, if targeted properly at those in need and at risk, offers the possibility of transforming the English HIV epidemic. From September, people at high risk of HIV will have access via this NHS-funded trial in England to an empowering new tool that is truly individually controlled and not subject to negotiation with a partner, leading to the improvement of many, many lives. We warmly welcome this announcement.' Ian Green, chief executive of the Terrence Higgins Trust, said: 'The priority must now be to make sure that the trial is rolled out speedily across the country, and that no-one at risk of HIV is left behind. Now that the PrEP trial drug has been procured, we're well on the way to protecting over 10,000 people at risk of HIV.' Shadow public health minister Sharon Hodgson said: 'The start of the PrEP trial is welcome and long overdue after months of delays and heel-dragging by the Government. The evidence shows just how transformative this drug can be as part of our approach to HIV prevention and ending the transmission of this life-changing infection. This trial will take us one step closer to fully understanding the benefits of PrEP. Now it is important that this trial is rolled out as quickly as possible across the country to protect individuals who are exposed to HIV and help take us one step closer to ending the spread of HIV in society.'
Living the high life: mezzanine floor and clever design tricks have transformed this small Earls Court flat into a spacious home Joanne Leigh, a former banker with a passion for doing up property, downsized from a large home in Knightsbridge to an Earls Court apartment in 2014. It is on the first floor of a smart Queen Anne terrace - and it is a testament to the new design that Joanne hasn't packed her bags and sold on. "Before this, I was living with my ex in Knightsbridge in a much bigger space," Joanne says. "I was looking for something that was comparable for my price. I was shown this apartment in Earls Court and it had the same high ceilings. I fell in love with it and put an offer in that day." Since the first viewing, the 1,000sq ft flat has had a complete overhaul. Originally a one-bedroom property with a convoluted layout - you had to walk through the kitchen to get to the bedroom - Joanne wanted to add storage space and a mezzanine to make the most of the generous ceiling height. "I wanted high ceilings, big windows, lots of light. That was my requirement," she says. To this end, she employed Erfan Azadi of Notting Hill-based architecture and design studio Duck & Shed to exploit the 12.5ft ceilings and create a home that wasn't only a development but a place for Joanne to live. The ceiling wasn't quite tall enough to add two spaces on top of each other so the architectural challenge was to create a mezzanine that you could stand up in. Erfan had to think creatively to resolve the brief. "The steelwork is quite complicated," he explains. "We had to arrange the spaces so that they stacked on top of each other without needing to hunch down. It wasn't just building a simple platform, but cranking the steels so that they were at the right height for the function above or below." This arrangement allowed Erfan to get two full-height rooms on top of each other in the space - with lots of added drama. For the mezzanine, a vintage copper light window from Retrouvius looks down over the glamorous living area below. Mirrored gold furniture, silver accents and vintage Serge Mouille lighting all set the style for the scheme. The use of mirrors plays a part in adding theatre, space and light. A short corridor is mirrored at both ends to make it appear longer. In the kitchen, the mirrored splashback feels like a window to another room. At the entrance, mirrored units provide storage for all Joanne's cutlery and glassware. Giving the perception of a more glamorous space, the beauty of the living room is being able to close off the kitchen when it's not in use. Foldaway kitchens are nothing new. What's unique about this one is that it's a garage-style lift-up door. "A bit of engineering went into that," explains Erfan of the steel-reinforced, veneered MDF door. "It's counter-weighted so that when you push the door up, it glides really easily." Thanks to clever use of space and storage, Joanne gained an additional 16sq m, an extra bedroom and an improved layout. "At the end of the day, floor space is what you are going to sell - or how your property is valued," Erfan says. "In a rudimentary form, a real estate agent will walk in and do a calculation based on floor size." Here they have managed to increase the floor space while using quality materials that give the space its luxurious edge. "The materials are the things that you touch and therefore help to create an emotional bond in a home," says Erfan. "You don't fall in love with the electrical feeds in the walls. These are important but they don't pull the heart strings." It goes to show that through good design and increased square metreage, a flat can turn from something standard into something quite amazing. In fact, like Joanne, you may choose not to leave.
Brothers fight over $500 million property empire Two brothers are at war over one of Victoria's biggest real estate empires, worth more than $500 million, four decades after their Italian family founded the dynasty. Former Carlton Football Club director and developer Colin De Lutis lives in a Toorak mansion three doors from younger brother Paul, who has taken him to the Supreme Court over how their property and business assets will be sliced up. Paul has wanted out of the family business since 2014 but an acrimonious argument is playing out in the Supreme Court over the break-up. Together with their mother Anna the brothers own 38 properties worth more than half a billion dollars, amassed since the family bought a Smith Street, Collingwood, shop in 1973. There, the family founded Westco Jeans and grew it into a chain of 160 retail outlets. It sold in 1999 for $85 million. That money was sunk into property and the De Lutis portfolio now includes city offices, Brunswick and Sorrento development sites, Gold Coast and Mt Buller apartments, and suburban shopping centres. Under an agreement with their late father, Colin - described by Paul as "the major driving force and the dominant personality" in the De Lutis family - owns about two-thirds of the company assets and Paul about one-third. A court filing says this translates to Colin owning property worth $316 million and Paul $176 million. Dividing the properties and cash has proved the sticking point for Paul. "The splits proposed by Colin left him with what I considered to be the best properties," he wrote in an initial court affidavit in 2015. Last Friday, after several failed mediations, the first Supreme Court hearing was held. The brothers are also now fighting over who controls the existing business - which Paul alleges Colin has locked him out of. Colin argues this is not true, but accuses Paul of incompetently managing some properties. In an early affidavit filed by Colin, he says he hopes to resolve the dispute. "My Italian heritage dictates that family is the most important priority," he wrote. Costs are mounting in the case, with hundreds of pages of affidavits, emails and reports by companies including Deloitte, Pitcher Partners and Charter Keck Cramer filed and top barristers including Allan Myers, QC, and senior solicitors retained by both sides. Ms De Lutis and her late husband Luigi were Italian immigrants who ran milk bars and delicatessens from the late 1950s and in the early 1970s bought a shop in Brunswick. They used the collateral to buy the Collingwood property where Colin opened the family's first jeans store. Colin says he started Westco there when he was "in my final years of high school, when Paul was a young child (around 10 years old)." Anna De Lutis says she and Luigi, who died in 2012, hoped to pass down their properties to their sons amicably. "Luigi often said to me that he never wanted the brothers to end up in court," she wrote. Two other brothers, Mark and Luke, are no longer part of the De Lutis group of companies, with Colin saying that Mark was paid $10 million when he left the business, and Luke $26 million. Both Luke and Mark had become, Paul says, "bitter about the terms of their financial separation." Colin has kept a low profile despite being a former AFL club board member and, according to a 2015 biography of Eddie McGuire, the television star's best friend. Fairfax Media contacted Colin and Paul De Lutis on Friday, and their lawyers. Only Colin replied, by text message, to say that because the case was before the courts "I really cannot say much." "It's very, very sad that my brother Paul has chosen to sue me and drag our family name through the courts," he wrote. In mid-2016, Colin wrote in one court filing that he had tried to accommodate his brother's requests. "Our father would not have wanted to see Paul and I end up in our current dispute," he said, adding that he was "still hopeful of resolution." On Friday, that hope appeared gone. "Our matter will be resolved by the courts in the near future," Colin wrote.
Trump's new chief of staff plans to restrict the president's media diet. Others have tried and failed. Maybe John F. Kelly can actually do it. If so, he will be the first. Politico reports that the new White House chief of staff plans to restrict the flow of information to President Trump - including news media reports - in the hope of keeping the boss on a more even keel. Here's a bit from reporter Josh Dawsey: "When new White House Chief of Staff John F. Kelly huddled with senior staff on his first day at work, he outlined a key problem in President Donald Trump's White House that he planned to fix: bad information getting into the president's hands. Kelly told the staff that information needed to flow through him - whether on paper or in briefings - because the president would make better decisions if given good information." Kelly's diagnosis makes perfect sense, but others have tried and failed to tame Trump by monitoring his media diet. President Trump's relationship with television goes back decades - and now that he's in the White House, his TV-watching habit is still going strong. "If candidate Trump was upset about unfair coverage, it was productive to show him that he was getting fair coverage from outlets that were persuadable," Sam Nunberg, a former campaign adviser, told Politico in February. Politico's Tara Palmeri wrote at the time that "the key to keeping Trump's Twitter habit under control, according to six former campaign officials, is to ensure that his personal media consumption includes a steady stream of praise." Okay. But the idea that Trump's Twitter habit has ever been "under control" is laughable. Maybe these campaign officials know something the rest of us don't - that Trump's tweets would have been even more inflammatory if not for their interventions. We'll probably never know about tweets that Trump didn't send. If his staffers managed to him out of trouble even a few times, then their efforts were worthwhile. But no one has been able to consistently prevent Trump from stirring up controversy. Part of the problem is that in a White House composed of competing factions, people invariably try to advance their agendas by presenting Trump with material - which may or may not be reliable - that promotes their worldviews. Politico - all over this story - reported in May on advisers' penchants for strategically feeding dubious information to the president. This was one example, described by reporter Shane Goldmacher: "Current and former Trump officials say Trump can react volcanically to negative press clips, especially those with damaging leaks, becoming engrossed in finding out where they originated. That is what happened in late February when someone mischievously gave the president a printed copy of an article from GotNews.com, the website of Internet provocateur Charles C. Johnson, which accused deputy chief of staff Katie Walsh of being 'the source behind a bunch of leaks' in the White House. No matter that Johnson had been permanently banned from Twitter for harassment or that he offered no concrete evidence or that he had lobbed false accusations in the past and recanted them. Trump read the article and began asking staff about Walsh." Goldmacher added that then-chief of staff Reince Priebus and White House staff secretary Rob Porter "have tried to implement a system to manage and document the paperwork Trump receives." How'd that work out? Kelly is trying to do the same thing, three months later. Perhaps he will prove a more effective manager than Priebus, but Trump is still his impulsive self, and his aides are still vying for influence. Those immutable factors will make Kelly's mission very difficult.
Travellers negotiate trench, return to 'Millionaire's row' Some of the West Midlands' wealthiest homeowners are again at loggerheads with determined travellers who have negotiated a council-dug trench to reclaim a field outside their mansions. The travellers have parked their 20 caravans in a field outside a prosperous street of Solihull dubbed 'millionaire's row'. Bringing horses, babies and an army of vans, they have returned after being kicked out only in May, undeterred by a moat dug by the council to prevent their incursions. The tactful group found a gap in the defences, squeezing their vehicles though a section left unbarricaded to accommodate a pathway. Furious residents have savaged Solihull Council saying it was 'useless at dealing with the problem'. One anonymous resident said: 'They moved there on Monday night after being moved on from Bentley Heath where they were throwing rocks at passers by. The council needs to be shamed into action as they are useless at dealing with the problem. The travellers were there in May, were moved on and now they are back again. More arrived last night, probably even more today.' She added: 'Birmingham council knows how to deal with this by getting long injunctions to protect their parks. I live on Streetsbrook road and I'm not happy to continue paying my council tax when the council can't even stop this.' One local resident who did not wish to be named said: 'It is ridiculous, we have only just seen the last round of these travellers leaving, only to be blighted by another round. The numbers have increased this time and a horse has even been seen grazing on the parkland.' A spokeswoman for Solihull Council said: 'We are aware of an unauthorised encampment on land off Streetsbrook Road and working alongside Solihull Police, we are undertaking the necessary legal actions to move them on as quickly as possible. To support our evidence gathering it is very important that as many local residents as possible report any anti-social or criminal behaviour to the police by calling 101. This helps build a picture of the situation for the court to consider when we present our case to them.'
Italy toughens tone on NGO migrant rescue boats Italy has warned NGOs operating migrant rescue boats in the Mediterranean they will not be allowed to continue if they do not sign up to new rules governing their operations. "If NGOs do not sign up to a new code of conduct, it is difficult to see how they can continue operating," Interior Minister Marco Minniti said in an interview with Turin daily La Stampa. Minniti's warning came a day after Italian authorities impounded a boat operated by German aid organisatiion Jugend Rettet on suspicion its crew effectively collaborated with people traffickers in a way that facilitated illegal immigration. The aid organisation, which has only been operational for a year, declined to comment on the substance of detailed allegations made against it by Italian prosecutor Ambrogio Cartosio. "For us the rescue of human life is and will be our top priority, so we are very sorry we will not be able to operate in the search and rescue zone at the moment," the organisation said in a statement on social media. "We can only assess all the accusations currently being made after we have gathered all the information and can assess the situation." Italian authorities had been monitoring Jugend Rettet's boat, the Iuventa, since October. Its crew is suspected to taking on board dinghy loads of migrants delivered directly to them by people traffickers and allowing the smugglers to make off with the vessels to be used again. At least one such meeting allegedly took place only 1.3 miles off the Libyan coast, according to the prosecutor's file, the contents of which were published by Italian media. The crew are suspected of having flouted the authority of the Italian coastguard, which oversees rescue operations in the zone, out of humanitarian zeal rather than for any other motives. Under the code of conduct, boats like the Iuventa would notably have to have an Italian police officer on board monitoring their activities. Only three of the nine NGOs involved in search and rescue operations have so far agreed to abide by the code: Save The Children, Malta-based MOAS and Spain's Pro-Activa Open Arms. The latter said on Thursday it regarded the new rules as unnecessary but acceptable as they would not involve any "significant change or impediment" to its rescue operations. Among those who have refused to sign is the Nobel Prize-winning organisation Doctors Without Borders (MSF). Minniti meanwhile said a sharp fall over recent weeks in the number of migrants arriving in Italy following rescues was an indication that efforts to beef up the Libyan coastguard and cooperation with local mayors was bearing fruit. "In recent days we have begun to see light at the end of the tunnel," the minister said. He revealed plans for further talks this month with Libyan mayors on economic development initiatives and with Chad, Niger and Mali on measures to reduce the number of migrants leaving those countries in the hope of reaching Europe.
Michelle Carter sentenced for texts urging suicide of Conrad Roy A Massachusetts woman has been sentenced to two and a half years for encouraging her boyfriend to commit suicide through texts and phone calls. Michelle Carter, now 20, will serve 15 months of her term behind bars and five years of probation. Carter was convicted in June of the involuntary manslaughter of Conrad Roy, who took his own life on 13 July 2014. Mr Roy's father told Thursday's hearing: "My family is heartbroken. My son was my best friend." Carter was allowed to remain free pending an appeal. She had faced a maximum sentence of 20 years, but her legal team argued that both she and Mr Roy suffered from mental illness. Dressed in red trousers and a cream blouse, Carter stood tearfully with hands clasped and eyes cast down as she was sentenced. "Her actions killed Conrad Roy," the prosecutor told the court. "She ended his life to better her own. She has not accepted responsibility," she said. "She has shown no remorse." But Carter's lawyer said it was a "horrible circumstance that she completely regrets." However, Judge Lawrence Moniz said he did not find that her "age or level of maturity or even her mental illness have any significant impact on her actions." A prosecutor read a statement from Mr Roy's mother, Lynn Roy, saying there was "not one day I do not mourn the loss of my beloved son. I want him to be proud of me and how I am handling everything - I am trying to be there for his sisters in all of my pain we will carry with us for eternity," it said. Mr Roy's sister, Camdyn Roy, testified that she was "haunted" by the realisation that she would never attend her brother's wedding or be an aunt to his children. "Not having that one person I've been with every day since birth is a pain I'll always keep with me for the rest of my life," she said. The case appears to set a legal precedent, as there is no Massachusetts law that criminalises telling a person to commit suicide. Carter was 17 when Mr Roy was found dead of carbon monoxide poisoning in a vehicle in 2014. The case drew national attention after Carter's text messages revealed she had encouraged him to end his life. "Hang yourself, jump off a building, stab yourself I don't know there's a lot of ways," she said in several messages sent in the two weeks before his death while he was on holiday with his family. In the moments before his suicide, she wrote: "You need to do it, Conrad" and "All you have to do is turn the generator on and you will be free and happy." Judge Moniz said Carter sought attention through Mr Roy's death, ordering that she not be allowed to profit from the case through any press. The case has divided legal opinion. Among the few to defend Carter was Amanda Knox, who was convicted of murdering her British roommate in Italy in 2007 before she was cleared two years ago. Ms Knox, 30, published an op-ed in the Los Angeles Times saying: "Michelle Carter deserves sympathy and help, not prison."
Audi to Modify Up to 850,000 Diesel Vehicles as Carmakers Face Backlash A day before Audi's announcement, BMW said it would offer to upgrade the software in more than 350,000 vehicles. The BMW chairman said the company believed "there are more intelligent options than driving restrictions," referring to the European cities - including Munich, where BMW is based - that have considered banning or restricting diesel vehicles. Daimler announced on Tuesday that it would modify three million Mercedes vehicles in Europe to reduce their diesel emissions. None of the companies described the moves as recalls. European carmakers have heavily promoted the use of diesel vehicles in Europe and the United States to help meet rules on carbon dioxide emissions. But the nitrogen oxides that diesel engines emit are considered carcinogens, and can cause asthma. The cost to automotive companies of installing equipment to neutralize the fumes emitted by diesel vehicles is also increasing, making it difficult to keep the price of the cars competitive. As German automakers face scrutiny, the government of Chancellor Angela Merkel has also been accused of coddling the powerful car companies and of ignoring signs of the problem. The companies are trying to avoid repeating the mistakes of Volkswagen, which covered up its use of so-called defeat devices that could adjust emissions to comply with regulations when a car was being tested, but ease back in normal driving conditions. Several Volkswagen executives have been charged in the United States, and others are under investigation on both sides of the Atlantic. Last month, the former head of thermodynamics at Audi's engine development department was arrested in Germany. The former manager, Zaccheo Giovanni Pamio, is Italian, and therefore is not protected from extradition and could face trial in the United States. Early this year, Audi was swept up into a German criminal investigation involving Volkswagen after the authorities accused Audi of installing a system to evade emissions rules in Europe, broadening an inquiry that had focused on the United States. The inclusion of Audi in the investigation could weigh heavily on Volkswagen: The luxury carmaker accounts for a disproportionate share of Volkswagen's profit.
Provence lavender under threat from climate change It has become a symbol of Provence in southern France, but there is a warning that it's under threat from climate change. Lavender is in decline because of drought-like conditions and disease-carrying insects, causing a major headache for scientists and farmers attempting to find solutions. Eric Chaisse, an expert at the Provence-based agricultural research institute CRIEPPAM, said: "Lavender in Provence is effectively endangered, because in recent years the plant has been subjected to the effects of climate change that brought a lot less rain in the spring and mostly in the autumn. This affects the lifespan of lavender. There's also a small cicada, a micro-bacteria transmitting leaf hopper, and in very dry weather there are lots of them." And a lot is at stake. As well as attracting holidaymakers, lavender oil is highly sought after for perfume and cosmetics. Eric Chaisse said: "Instead of having very long plant ears with a number of large flowers, we have smaller ones, underdeveloped and either missing or weakened. So we have fewer parts with essential oil." Solutions being looked at include better water distribution and slowing down evaporation from the soil, but also spraying the plants with a protective mix of clay and water and developing varieties more resistant to dry conditions.
A journalist's murder underscores growing threat in Mexico The staff of the weekly newspaper Riodoce normally meets on Wednesdays to review their plans for coverage of the most recent mayhem wrought in Sinaloa state by organized crime, corrupt officials and ceaseless drug wars. But on this day, in the shadow of their own tragedy, they've come together to talk about security. It's important to change their routines, they are told. Two senior journalists discuss what feels safer: to take their children with them to the office, which was the target of a grenade attack in 2009, or to leave them at home. Security experts have written three words on a blackboard at the front of the room: adversaries, neutrals, allies. They ask the reporters to suggest names for each column - no proof is needed, perceptions and gut feelings are enough. There are drug-traffickers, politicians, businesspeople, journalists suspected of being on the payroll of the government or the cartels, a catalog of villains who make the job of covering Mexico's chaos perilous. There is no respite from the violence, and as bodies pile up across the country, more and more of them are journalists: at least 25 since President Enrique Pena Nieto took office in December 2012, according to the Committee to Protect Journalists; 589 under federal protection after attacks and threats; and so far this year, at least seven dead in seven states. Among the latest is their editor and inspiration, Riodoce co-founder Javier Valdez Cardenas. "The greatest error is to live in Mexico and to be a journalist," Valdez wrote in one of his many books on narco-violence. His absence is felt deeply, although his presence is everywhere - a large photo of Valdez displaying his middle finger, with the word "Justice," hangs on the facade of the Riodoce building; two reporters on their 30s, Aaron Ibarra and Miriam Ramirez, wear T-shirts that display his smiling, bespectacled face or his trademark Panama hat. The workshop takes place less than two months after his death; the reporters discuss their shared trauma, their nightmares, insomnia, paranoia. Although a special federal prosecutor's office was established in 2010 to handle the journalists' cases, it has only prosecuted two, according to the Committee to Protect Journalists. As with most of the thousands of murders tied to drug trafficking and organized crime each year, the killers of journalists are rarely brought to justice. At Riodoce, they persist in covering the violence of Sinaloa, though they are heartbroken, though the terrain is more treacherous now. Without information on the killers, without justice, the meeting to discuss security, says Ibarra, is of little use. "It's very foolish to waste my time in this workshop," he says. "As long as we don't know why, you distrust everyone." On the morning of May 15, Valdez left the Riodoce office in the state capital of Culiacan. He managed to drive just a couple blocks before his red Toyota Corolla was stopped by two men; he was forced out of his car and shot 12 times, presumably for the name of the paper - which translates as Twelfth River. The gunman drove away in his car and crashed it nearby. Valdez was 50 years old. He left a wife and two adult children. Rumors tend to fly freely in Culiacan. But on the subject of Valdez, there's practically nothing but silence. Since Guzman's arrest last year and extradition to the United States in January, Sinaloa has been one of the country's bloodiest battlegrounds as rival factions fight to fill the vacuum. Never mind that someone or several people are shot dead in the street every day in Sinaloa, or that the cemetery is filled with ornate, two-story mausoleums for drug kings, larger than many homes for the living. Forget for a minute that a state of "calm" is when just one cartel is in control of the coastal state with its valuable ports and drug-trafficking routes to the United States. Despite that, and the fact that Valdez was intimately aware of the perils of his work, Ismail Bojorquez, 60, a co-founder and director of Riodoce, is wracked with guilt for failing to protect his friend. He believes two errors contributed to the killing. First there was the publication in February of an interview with Damaso Lopez, a leader of one of the rival cartel factions at war with Guzman's sons. The piece may have angered the sons; suspected gang members bought up every copy of the edition as soon as they were delivered to newsstands. The second mistake was not forcing Valdez to leave the country for his own safety after the seizure of another newspaper that carried the same story. Valdez was a legend in Mexico and abroad, and his killing is seen as a milestone in Mexican violence against journalists. He'd survived for so long, his friends and colleagues assumed he'd always be there. He was a veteran reporter for Noroeste in 2003 when he joined five colleagues in creating Riodoce, selling $50 shares. In Sinaloa, "it was impossible to do journalism without touching the narco issue," said Bojorquez. Over time the paper earned a reputation for brave and honest coverage, and sales and advertising increased. Reporters loved being able to publish hard-hitting investigations without fear of censorship, and readers were fascinated by a publication where they could read stories nobody else dared to cover. Eight years after Riodoce was founded, it won the prestigious Maria Moors Cabot award for coverage in Latin America. That same year, Valdez won the International Press Freedom Award of the Committee to Protect Journalists for his courage in pursuing the Mexican drug story wherever it led. He freely acknowledged that he was frightened. "I want to carry on living," he said at the time of the CPJ award. Drug trafficking in Sinaloa "is a way of life," he said last October, in an interview with Rompeviento TV. "You have to assume the task that falls to you as a journalist - either that or you play dumb. I don't want to be asked, 'What were you doing in the face of so much death ... why didn't you say what was going on?'" The Riodoce staff misses Valdez, the jokester who swore like a longshoreman, the friend generous with hugs and advice, a teacher who knew how to survive. They relied on his routine. He would always wear his hat. He would go to El Guayabo, the bar across from the office, and would always sit at the same table. Now, they ask: Was his love of routine his downfall? His death also has forced them to question their own assumptions about how best to do their jobs and stay alive. "They don't like it if you mess with their women, their children, their clean businesses, their clandestine airstrips" used to move drugs. "Those things were off-limits," said Bojorquez. The result is, even in the best of times, a high-level of self-censorship and self-preservation. Trusting one's instincts. If it smells wrong, stay away. The trouble, said Riodoce editor Andres Villarreal, is that "smell is a sense that can be fooled ... and then the thing with Javier happened." The old rules, he and others say, no longer apply in Sinaloa - just as they don't in Tamaulipas, Veracruz, Guerrero and other states that are home to a toxic mix of lucrative smuggling routes, weak institutions and corrupt government officials. The landscape constantly shifts. In the room where Riodoce staff met for security training, suddenly no cellphones were allowed; days before, it was revealed that spyware sold exclusively to governments had been used to monitor journalists and activists in Mexico. Outside, two police officers sought relief from the 104-degree (40 Celsius) heat in the shade of a tree. They were assigned by the state government to guard Riodoce's offices, housed in a four-story building in a middle-class neighborhood of Culiacan. Half-jokingly, some of the reporters wondered whether these officers are among the 50 percent of cops whom the governor himself has said are not trustworthy. It has been months since the reporters have gone into the mountainous countryside, where the drug gangs are in de facto control. For this week's edition Riodoce was looking at three main stories. There was the killing of former boxing great Julio Cesar Chavez's brother in Sinaloa. They also had an expose on government spending concentrated in the governor's hometown. And there was a group kidnapping in one of Culiacan's most expensive restaurants, a block from the prosecutor's office. There was no official word on who was abducted or how it happened, so caution set in when it came time to write what everyone in the city knows: that the restaurant is a favorite of both drug traffickers and authorities. A reporter learned from public records that the restaurant was registered under the name of a politician belonging to the ruling Institutional Revolution Party, or PRI, which dominated all levels of politics for nearly all of the last century. Recently several PRI governors have been accused of corruption in high-profile cases. Villarreal asked the reporter to write about prior incidents in that locale, including one in which a son of "El Chapo" Guzman escaped a military raid. Just months before, readers would have looked to Valdez's column for the best-sourced information about the kidnapping. "Before, we would have already known what happened," said Villarreal, 46, nicknamed "El Flaco" for his slender build. "Now all channels of communication with our sources have been broken." Valdez's office has been repurposed as a storage room for signs and stickers protesting journalist killings, as staff have become something they never expected to be: activists on behalf of the press. Reporter Miriam Ramirez grabbed a few of the signs and headed out the next morning for a demonstration at the local prosecutor's office over yet another journalist. Salvador Adame disappeared in the western state of Michoacan three days after Valdez was killed. A burned body has been discovered and officials say it is his, based on DNA tests. Nationwide, journalists have become more vocal, scrawling "SOS Press" on sidewalks and buildings in organized protests. On this day, the director Bojorquez is away in Washington, trying to rally international support for justice in the Valdez case. At a meeting with the governor of Sinaloa the day after Valdez was killed, Ramirez accused authorities of spying on journalists and having them killed for telling the truth. She has since asked to be reassigned from covering the government, concerned that her anger has hurt her objectivity. Valdez had repeatedly said that journalists in Mexico are "surrounded" by organized crime, complicit government officials and an indifferent society. In his last book, "Narco-journalism," he wrote that reporters are being killed not just by drug gangs but on the order of politicians and security forces in cahoots with organized crime. The media watchdog group Articulo 19 attributed more than half of attacks on journalists last year to police and public officials. "In Mexico you die because they want to shut you up," Ramirez said. Clearly, the murders have a chilling effect. No one forgets the death six years ago of blogger Maria Elizabeth Macias in the northern border state of Tamaulipas. Her body was found along with a note purportedly signed by the Zetas cartel: "Here I am because of my reports." A computer keyboard and headphones lay next to her severed head. Some outlets have opted to close, such as the newspaper El Norte, in the northern border state of Chihuahua, after the killing of correspondent Miroslava Breach in March. Others keep going, as El Manana of Nuevo Laredo did following the killing of its director in 2004. In 2010, Diario de Ciudad Juarez addressed the drug cartels publicly with a front-page editorial titled, "What do you want from us?" Some journalists have fled their home states or even the country. It's a wrenching decision. It's hard to find work in exile, and they still scan the streets, looking for danger. And sometimes, they are hunted down, as apparently was photographer Ruben Espinosa, who was murdered in 2015 along with four women in a Mexico City apartment three months after fleeing Veracruz. For those who stay behind and continue the work, it's a daily dance of high-risk decisions. Ibarra - who once wanted to be a poet - admits that covering the drug trade scares him. "Mexico is going to hell, and that's why I became a reporter," he said. At midnight on a recent Friday, with the latest issue already put to bed, Riodoce editors sat on the sidewalk outside the office, drinking beer, when all at once, their phones began to buzz. A series of shootouts involving gang rivals and security forces near the beach resort city of Mazatlan had left 19 confirmed dead. The war continued to escalate, as was promised by a series of cartel messages discovered in the area. From the curb, via cellphone, they put the news up on Riodoce's website. The front page would have to be changed the next day. Sirens wailed nearby - another shootout in the area. Bojorquez glanced over at the police officers standing guard to see if they were alert. If they were at all afraid, they didn't show it. Beneath the massive portrait of their newspaper's fallen founder, his middle finger displayed for all of Sinaloa to see, the staff of Riodoce was following in his footsteps. "How can you even think of closing," Bojorquez said, "when the same day Javier was killed the intern asked me to send her out to report on the street?"
Dinosaur used camouflage to evade its enemies At first glance, it looks like a statue albeit a terrifying one. Now researchers have revealed the first findings from the incredible rhino-sized creature found by a Canadian miner were so well preserved experts have described it as 'the Mona Lisa of dinosaurs'. It was so well preserved, they were even able to determine the colour of its scaly skin was a reddish brown - and say it had something of a 'troubled past'. The report in the journal Current Biology described it as 'the best-preserved armored dinosaur ever found, and one of the best dinosaur specimens in the world.' The fossil is a newfound species of nodosaur, which lived midway through the Cretaceous period, between 110 million and 112 million years ago. It's incredible well preserved state has stunned researchers, who describe it as 'truly remarkable' The armoured plant-eater is the best preserved fossil of its kind ever found, according to reports in National Geographic. It was found by Shawn Funk, when he was digging at the Suncor Millenium Mine near Fort McMurray in northern Alberta, Canada, on March 21, 2011. He hit something which seemed out of place from the surrounding rock, and decided to take a closer look. The fossil he uncovered was sent to the Royal Tyrrell Museum of Paleontology. They spent the next six years working on uncovering the beast within the 2,500-pound (1,100 kg) lump of earth. After all that hard work, the finished result is now ready to be unveiled. 'If you just squint your eyes a bit, you could almost believe it was sleeping,' said lead author Caleb Brown, a scientist at the Royal Tyrrell Museum where the creature is on display. 'It will go down in science history as one of the most beautiful and best preserved dinosaur specimens - the Mona Lisa of dinosaurs.' By studying its skin, researchers found that this plant-eater, though covered in armor and resembling a walking tank, likely faced a significant threat from meat-eating dinosaurs. The heavily armoured dinosaur used red and white camouflage to hide from predators, and employed a shielding technique known as counter-shading, which is also used by many modern-day animals. This would have allowed it to better blend into its surroundings and evade its enemies, experts say, suggesting it was preyed on by larger dinosaurs. The 110-million-year-old creature, part of the nodosaur family, first hit headlines in May and is now on view at the Royal Tyrrell Museum of Palaeontology. Researchers have now studied and named the beast Borealopelta markmitchelli after museum technician Mark Mitchell, one of a team who spent more than 7,000 hours painstakingly uncovering it. The amazing preservation of the specimen made it possible for Dr Mitchell and an international team of scientists to document the pattern and shape of scales and armour across its body. They discovered countershading, a common method of defence in the animal kingdom, which means the top of the creature was darker than its underside. Although countershading is common, the findings come as surprise because Borealopelta's size far exceeds that of countershaded animals alive today. It suggests the dinosaur was hunted by enough pressure meat-eating dinosaurs that evolution favoured concealment over confrontation as a means of survival. But most contemporary animals that have countershading -- think deer, zebras or armadillos -- are much smaller and more vulnerable as prey, signaling that this nodosaur faced a real struggle to survive. 'Strong predation on a massive, heavily-armored dinosaur illustrates just how dangerous the dinosaur predators of the Cretaceous must have been,' said Brown. Chemical analysis of organic compounds in its scales also reveal that the dinosaur's skin would have been reddish brown. Scientists are continuing to study the animal for clues about its life, including its preserved gut contents to find out what it ate for its last meal. They believe that when the dinosaur died, it fell into a river and was swept out to sea, where it sank on its back to the ocean floor. At that time, Alberta was as warm as south Florida is today, and rivers and oceans likely spread far further inland than they do now. 'This nodosaur is truly remarkable in that it is completely covered in preserved scaly skin, yet is also preserved in three dimensions, retaining the original shape of the animal,' said Brown. 'The result is that the animal looks almost the same today as it did back in the Early Cretaceous. You don't need to use much imagination to reconstruct it; if you just squint your eyes a bit, you could almost believe it was sleeping.' The Cretaceous was a time when giant theropods, meat-eating dinosaurs that stood on two legs, roamed the Earth. Although the king of them all, Tyrannosaurus rex, lived millions of years after Borealopelta, the armoured dinosaur may have been hunted by some of its formidable ancestors. They include Acrocanthosaurus, a 38ft (11.5m) long monster weighing six tonnes. The scientists, whose latest findings appear in the journal Current Biology, believe Borealopelta was washed out to sea after it died and mummified in mud. The creature was found by Shawn Funk, when he was digging at the Millenium Mine near Fort McMurray in northern Alberta, Canada, on March 21, 2011. According to the museum, it is the best preserved armoured dinosaur in the world, including skin and armour, and is complete from the snout to hips. The creatures were around 18 feet (five metres) long on average, and weighted up to 3,000 pounds (1,300 kg). It featured two 20-inch-long spikes which protruded from its shoulders. The researchers believe that the this armored plant-eater lumbered through what is now western Canada, until a flooded river swept it into open sea. But the dinosaur's undersea burial preserved its armor in exquisite detail. The fossilised remains of this particular specimen are so well preserved that remnants of skin still cover bumpy armour plates along the dinosaur's skull. As Michael Greshko wrote for National Geographic, such level of preservation 'is a rare as winning the lottery. The more I look at it, the more mind-boggling it becomes. Fossilized remnants of skin still cover the bumpy armor plates dotting the animal's skull. Its right forefoot lies by its side, its five digits splayed upward. I can count the scales on its sole.'
How one activist came to learn the answer to the question: 'Whose Streets?' On Aug. 9, 2014, Brittany Ferrell was shaken to her core. Just a day after arriving in New York City on a trip, the St. Louis native sat on the bed of an Airbnb she was renting, scrolling through Facebook on her phone. She stumbled upon a post from someone from high school. "The police just killed an 18 year old kid and he's still laying in the street," it read. Confused, noticing no one else on her feed had posted the information, she closed Facebook and opened Twitter. A user with the handle @TheePharoah was being constantly retweeted onto her timeline. The St. Louis-area rapper was live-tweeting the death of Michael Brown, an unarmed black 18-year-old killed by a white police officer in Ferguson, Mo. He posted a picture of Brown's lifeless body stretched out in the street, where it would stay for four hours. "This is wild," Ferrell thought to herself. But death was nothing new for her and her community. She put down her phone only to return later that evening to tweets about people gathering on Canfield Drive. There were photos of police tape and people yelling, and of a guy claiming to be Brown's father holding a sign that read, "Ferguson police just killed my unarmed son!" She watched a live feed where a police officer stood in front of a group of protesters with a barking dog. In another video, a different cop, she said, cocked his rifle and screamed, "I'll kill all you ... animals." "'This is not usual,'" Ferrell recalled saying. "'This isn't the type of murder that we've become used to and can call typical.' In that moment I felt chills. I was angry and crying." She booked a return flight and went home the next day. After landing at 11 p.m., she picked up her 6-year-old daughter from her dad's house and decided the two of them would head to Ferguson the next morning. What happened, to Ferrell and to Ferguson in the following almost three years is the subject of a new documentary, "Whose Streets?," in theaters Aug. 11. It's a tale of survival and protest, love and loss, strength and resilience from the vantage point of the people who live in the community and packed the streets demanding answers. As Ferrell drove to Ferguson with her daughter, who was wearing a floral dress and matching crown, the two revisited a conversation they'd had countless times before that morning "about the black experience and black condition." "You remember how I taught you about when black people had to fight for what they believed in?" she recalled saying. "We're going to Ferguson right now because the police killed an 18-year-old boy and it wasn't right. I couldn't not take her," Ferrell said later. "This happening today is a culmination of ... that has happened in the past. She needs to know it and see it and be raised in it. She needs to be well developed in the area of not just activism and organizing but knowing the different layers of the black experience and the black condition and what we must do to get free, to free ourselves. Even if I'm fortunate enough to provide her an experience where she doesn't personally experience blatant racism, she is no different than the next black woman-child. I feel like I would be doing her a disservice to shield her from that." The first stop when they arrived in Ferguson was on South Florissant Road, a site across from the police department that became a campground of sorts as the activists awaited word of Officer Darren Wilson's eventual non-indictment. There Ferrell and her daughter linked up with a local business owner who was making sack lunches. They prepared bags and helped pass them out to protesters. Slowly, a new type of activism began to take shape for Ferrell. "My activism completely transformed after Aug. 9," she said, noting that while an undergrad at the University of Missouri-St. Louis, she was president of the Minority Student Nurses Assn. and focused on food justice and health disparities in black communities. "I had no experience in organizing. It all just came." Weeks later, Ferrell met Sabaah Folayan, one of the film's co-directors, during an evening demonstration. Folayan said she and her director of photography Lucas Alvarado-Farrar "just wanted to document" what was happening. A question came to Ferrell's mind: "Do you want to document or are you trying to find a story that you can exploit?" That skepticism was informed by countless instances of people - often white - coming into a community to profit off its pain and resilience. As Folayan explained in a recent interview, "We had heard that people who are born and raised in Ferguson were not having their voices centered, and we wanted to do it differently." Folayan had already linked up with co-director Damon Davis, an area artist known for his activism around death row inmates. His involvement endeared Ferrell to the project, along with six other locals the "Whose Streets?" team followed in the years after Brown's shooting. "This documentary is not somebody speaking for us or speaking to us, it's us speaking," Davis said. "That was the main thing for me, how these people will be represented, because that's how I will be represented." While the goal wasn't to focus on Ferrell's experience - in an effort to show that the movement is "not about a messiah leader but a community coming together," Folayan said - she proved to be the most open of the film's participants. As a result, "Whose Streets?" documents surprisingly personal aspects of Ferrell's life, like falling in love and marrying her wife. "I felt like I was naked," said Ferrell, laughing about the first time she saw the finished product. "But I understood that with doing this work and humanizing black folks, there has to be a level of vulnerability." Moreover, Ferrell's story reiterates and re-centers the role of black queer women in the broader Black Lives Matter movement. Two of the movement's three founders - who coined #BlackLivesMatter on social media in the aftermath of the 2012 killing of black teen Trayvon Martin - identify as queer. "Black queer women in leadership has sustained the movement overall," said Ferrell, "and that's because we're constantly at battle on multiple fronts. Black queer women have to bear the brunt of it all." Folayan agreed noting that "the movement is really upheld by black women and a lot of queer black women." She insists, however, that "this is not some affirmative action type of thing" where Ferrell was chosen as the film's heart because of her identities. "She was the person who was galvanizing this energy," she said. "It's not a coincidence though she was on the front lines, because living life at those intersections as a black queer woman, you have so much on the line. You can feel her energy through the screen." Meanwhile, back in Ferguson, the news cameras are long gone but fraught racial ties between the community and police persist. Ferrell is on probation for 2½ more years for blocking a highway during a demonstration. She describes the socio-political atmosphere of the area she calls home simply: "A mess." Still, she clings to a chant she's committed to memory since taking to Ferguson's streets a full three years ago. "It is our duty to fight for our freedom. It is our duty to win. We must love and support each other. We have nothing to lose but our chains."
A Becoming Resemblance: artist creates portraits using Chelsea Manning's DNA In the center of the room at New York's Fridman Gallery are multiple faces - white, black and brown, each bearing an almost imperceptible resemblance to one another - suspended on wires from the ceiling. The 30 portraits were created by the artist Heather Dewey-Hagborg from cheek swabs and hair clippings sent to her by Chelsea Manning. Manning sent the clippings from the Fort Leavenworth prison, where the former intelligence analyst was serving a 35-year sentence after famously leaking classified diplomatic cables through the website WikiLeaks. The new exhibition, which opened on 2 August, is titled A Becoming Resemblance. It's the product of two years of correspondence between Dewey-Hagborg, whose discipline combines her expertise in technology, computer science and art, and Manning, a trans woman and pioneering dissident whose sentence was commuted by Barack Obama when he had just three days left in office. By algorithmically analyzing DNA extracted from Manning and using it to create 30 portraits of what someone with that genomic data might look like, Dewey-Hagborg has created a trenchant, if somewhat cerebral, commentary on not only the malleability of DNA data - the many ways it can be interpreted, and the inherent determinism of those interpretations - but also identity. Manning, who was born Bradley Edward but has spoken openly about identifying as a woman as early as adolescence, was convicted in 2013 on 20 charges, including six Espionage Act violations, computer fraud and theft. From prison, her image was repressed, so much so that there was just one photo - a granular, black-and-white selfie in which Manning, visibly uneasy, sits in a driver's seat wearing a platinum blonde wig - with which she became associated. In 2015, Dewey-Hagborg was coming off the massive success of her 2012 project, Stranger Visions. In it, the artist produced portraits of strangers from forensic artifacts like cigarette butts and chewing gum, extracting DNA from the detritus to conjure an image of what these folks might look like. That was when she received an email from Paper Magazine. "They were conducting an interview with Chelsea Manning while she was in prison and they wanted some kind of portrait to accompany that article," Dewey-Hagborg explained at a press preview of the new exhibition. And she couldn't be visited and she couldn't be photographed at that time, so they reached out to Chelsea and asked if she'd be interested in having a DNA portrait made. The artist and her incarcerated muse became unlikely pen pals, exchanging several letters over the course of two years. They even created a comic book, Suppressed Images, illustrated by Shoili Kanungo, that envisioned a future where the president would commute Chelsea's sentence and she'd be able to see the exhibition in person. That Obama would indeed call for Manning's release just days after the book went public was a welcome sort of serendipity after seven brutal years at a military prison in Kansas. There's also something profound and powerful about the exhibition opening now, as Donald Trump wages war on government leakers and transgender troops while finding new, tweetable ways to further inflame the stark divisions he's been called on to mend. When asked about the peculiar timing of it all, Dewey-Hagborg said that "things happen for a reason." In an artist statement written on the gallery's wall, Manning's super-sized signature below it (the "i" in her last name dotted with a heart), called for an end to the "automatic factionalism that gender, race, sexuality, and culture have been the basis of." On the opposite wall is her mitochondrial DNA sequence - a centipede of Cs and Gs and As, written in pencil. By including the 200 letters (or nucleotides, per the artist's sophisticated scientific lexicon), Dewey-Hagborg hoped to illustrate how astoundingly similar, at least in biological makeup, we all are. "What I'm hoping that people will take away from this is that our genome doesn't care about who we are, and how open genetic data is to interpretation, how subjective it is," said Dewey-Hagborg, whose 2007 video work, Spurious Memories, is also on display. "DNA data can tell so many different stories, so this is 30 of those stories." The final piece in the exhibition, which is contained in a single room, is one page from the aforementioned graphic novella. It shows Manning, emerging, King Kong-esque, from the United States Disiplinary Barracks with a speakerphone in hand. "When they chill your speech, then they've won," it reads. "So never shut up." "It came directly from a letter that she wrote to me," the artist, who hails from Philadelphia, said. "I get goosebumps still talking about it." Manning hasn't seen the exhibition in-person yet - as was so presciently imagined in the comic book - but when she does, she'll be greeted in the center of the room by the masks, her own genomic simulacra congregated like hordes of protesters. That was purposeful, too, as is everything in the exhibition, down to the height (5"2, Manning's stature) at which her genetic haplogroups were written in pencil. "In the past, I've had them on the wall but I wanted them to feel like a crowd," Dewey-Hagborg said of the portraits. "I wanted it to feel like a mass movement that was forming with Chelsea, like the movement that was behind freeing her as well."
Northwestern Professor and Oxford University Employee Wanted for Homicide A nationwide manhunt is underway for a Northwestern University professor and an Oxford University employee who are wanted as suspects after a man was found fatally stabbed inside a luxury Chicago apartment, police said. On Monday, first-degree murder warrants without bail were issued for Wyndham Lathem, 42, and Andrew Warren, 56, for their alleged involvement in the death of Trenton H. James Cornell-Duranleau, Cook County court records show. The documents say Cornell-Duranleau, 26, died after being stabbed multiple times. A community alert released by the Chicago Police Department says the body was discovered on July 27. Officers received a call and arrived at the Grand Plaza Apartments and found the victim with several lacerations on his body. Cornell-Duranleau was pronounced dead on the scene and detectives are investigating the stabbing as a homicide while police actively search for the two suspects, officials said. Lathem has been an associate professor of microbiology and immunology at Northwestern University since 2007. Alan K. Cubbage, the vice president for university relations, said in an emailed statement that Lathem is now on administrative leave and has been banned from entering Northwestern University campuses. "This is now a criminal matter under investigation by the appropriate authorities, and Northwestern University is cooperating in that investigation," Cubbage said. Warren is a senior treasury assistant at Oxford University. A spokesperson for the university and Somerville College said in an emailed statement that, "We have been in contact with the police in the UK and are ready to help the US investigating authorities in any way they need." The statement added that Warren's colleagues were shocked and want him to turn himself in. Chief Communications Officer of the Chicago Police Department Anthony Guglielmi said he strongly encourages the suspects to surrender to authorities. "Police have an idea of their whereabouts but our efforts to locate that are intensifying," Guglielmi said. Guglielmi said local, regional and national authorities are helping find the suspects. Guglielmi said police received a call from the Grand Plaza building manager who had just received a cryptic tip that said something had occurred in apartment 1008. Police described the scene as very gruesome. Guglielmi said it is unclear if the incident also occurred on July 27. Lathem and Warren were confirmed to be at the building by security cameras, he said. "We believe Professor Latham and the victim had a relationship," Guglielmi said. The management team at Grand Plaza released a statement to residents saying, "Police are currently working on the timeline and background of the victim and are exploring a variety of motives, including a possible domestic incident."
"We'll complete WADA roadmap in near future" - Russian Deputy PM Mutko Russian Deputy Prime Minister Vitaly Mutko has said it will not take long to implement the remaining World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) criteria for the reinstatement of the Russian Anti-Doping Agency (RUSADA). "A certain stage of fulfilling the road map criteria has been carried out, RUSADA obtained the right to plan and test in cooperation with UKAD (UK Anti-Doping). The WADA roadmap was updated in this regard," Mutko stated on Thursday. The PM was commenting on the second part of WADA's Roadmap to Code Compliance, which describes the criteria for the reinstatement of RUSADA and which recently published on the organization's website. According to Mutko, it does not contain anything that could cause concern for Russia. "Everything has been announced, everything will be implemented. And the results will be presented to the International Olympic Committee [IOC] and WADA in the near future," he added. One of the criteria mentioned in the list, however, states that Russian anti-doping authorities must publically accept the reported outcomes of the WADA-sanctioned investigation by Canadian lawyer Richard McLaren on alleged state-sponsored doping in Russian sport. Referring to the matter, Mutko said: "We are conducting the investigation, as our anti-doping system admitted a failure. All measures have been implemented. But there were no state programs, and we will not admit something that didn't exist." Mutko's words echoed those of Vitaly Smirnov, the head of Russia's Independent Public Anti-Doping Commission. Talking to Russian outlet RSport earlier in the day, Smirnov admitted past problems in Russian anti-doping bodies, but added: "We have said on numerous occasions, that the report contains controversial positions and regulations. No one plans to accept this report unconditionally," Smirnov added. RUSADA was suspended from carrying out doping controls within Russia by WADA in November 2015 in the wake of the doping scandal. It was, however, permitted to plan and coordinate testing under the supervision of international experts and UK Anti-Doping (UKAD) this June. Following a visit to the organization's headquarters in Moscow in July, WADA Director General Olivier Niggli stated that RUSADA is "moving in the right direction" to be reinstated.
The start-ups that will help your company avoid becoming the next Uber Amy Errett wanted to gauge employee happiness at her e-commerce start-up, but surveys weren't working. Responses were often vague, unhelpful or, worse, deceitful. And even if she promised anonymity, some workers didn't trust the process. "It just never had consistency and objectivity," said Errett, who runs the 75-person San Francisco e-commerce hair care company Madison Reed. So she called in outsiders for help. A new breed of human resources start-ups is cropping up to help companies figure out how their employees feel. By building and licensing software that has the specific purpose of measuring employee engagement, they allow companies to do snap polls, target specific teams and demographic groups, offer employees anonymity and complaint hotlines, and in some cases allow whistle-blowers to bypass C-suite executives and go straight to the board of directors. "You've now got tools such as Strava and Fitbit for tracking your health, but where's the Fitbit for your company?" said Jim Barnett, co-founder and chief executive of Redwood City start-up Glint, whose software analytics tools are used by companies to measure employee engagement. Errett said she gained more insight into what her employees were thinking and feeling in three years using Glint. In addition to the snap surveys and polls of specific teams, it offers a heat map of the company showing at a glance which units have the most complaints and which managers have low approval scores - allowing her to drill down on why. Companies are coming to realize they must stay on top of their workplace culture, lest they become the next Uber, which has been enmeshed in scandal since a former employee published a blog post describing an environment of harassment where those who spoke out were punished. For start-ups such as Glint, this desire for oversight is a lucrative business opportunity. The global governance, regulation and compliance industry could be worth more than $118.7 billion by 2020, according to finance tech insights website Let's Talk Payments. Denver, Colo., start-up Convercent, which helps companies prevent and detect bad behavior, saw an uptick in interest and activity earlier this year amid Uber's fall into disrepute. Convercent has nearly 600 clients, including Airbnb, Microsoft, and Tesla. Uber recently signed up as a client. Like Glint, Convercent lets companies send customized "pulse" surveys, gather confidential responses in real time, and view heat maps of its problem areas. It also offers an anonymous texting hotline that lets employees report bad behavior. And if the chief executive is implicated, complaints go straight to the board of directors. "The court of public opinion has usurped regulators," said Patrick Quinlan, the founder and chief executive of Convercent. If a company is found to treat its employees poorly or behave unethically, even if regulators don't step in, it can face costly consequences from consumer boycotts, employee attrition and lawsuits, Quinlan said. Ruby Tuesday, the restaurant chain with more than 25,000 employees across 500 locations, has used Convercent for more than a year to ensure employees are aware of policies and procedures and offer an easy way to reach its corporate headquarters. Previously, if an employee wanted to report a problem, he or she had to find a phone number or email for corporate headquarters, lodge a formal complaint, and hope it was taken seriously. It was often an intimidating and uncomfortable experience, said James Vitrano, Ruby Tuesday's general counsel, who said there was no good way of tracking employee complaints. Now that the company is using Convercent, though, problems that were previously hidden from executives who sat in offices cities or states away - such as discrimination, harassment or unfair wage practices - can be more quickly identified and addressed. "I can get closer to that holistic, 360-degree view into the employment experience," said Vitrano, who oversees Ruby Tuesday's risk management group. "And we're protecting our shareholders from employment litigation." Companies started taking ethics, values and employee engagement more seriously in 2002 after accounting firm Arthur Andersen collapsed because of ethical violations from the Enron scandal, Quinlan said. But it wasn't until "social media came into its own" that companies realized they couldn't stop their dirty laundry from going viral online. "Prior to using technology to monitor ethics, people used hope as a strategy," he said. Both Glint and Convercent offer their software as a service, charging companies recurring fees to use their products. It's a business model and opportunity that has the approval of venture capital investors, who have propped up both start-ups. Convercent raised $10 million in funding in February from firms such as Sapphire Ventures and Tola Capital, bringing its total capital raised to $47 million. Glint secured $10 million in November from Bessemer Venture Partners, bringing its total funding to $60 million. These investments hardly come as a surprise, given the interconnected nature of companies, culture and venture capital. There's a growing body of research showing today's employees expect more from their workplaces than before. In competitive markets such as Silicon Valley, high salaries and interesting projects are merely table stakes. Employees want to feel that they're accepted and valued and that they're giving their time to a company with a positive mission. "When people are happy to be at a company, feel their voices are heard, and that the work they are doing is rewarding, they are more committed to making that company successful," said Nina McQueen, vice president of global benefits and employee experience at LinkedIn, which uses both Convercent and Glint. Investors achieve returns when their portfolio companies do well; companies do well when employees are committed and engaged. If third-party analytics tools promise to increase employee commitment and engagement, it's no wonder they're finding backing. Having data on employee engagement is important, according to workplace culture experts. But the data are useless unless a company's custodians take action. In fact, if a company asks employees for their feedback, it can set an expectation that change is on the way. And if change doesn't come fast enough, or at all, it can breed disappointment and make employees disengaged. "If you're going to ask for 4,000 suggestions, you need to be prepared to have 4,000 conversations," said Russell Raath, president of consulting at business management firm Kotter International, who has seen companies make the mistake of relying too much on data collection. "Because if you don't follow through, employees will wonder, 'Did you really hear me? Do you care? And if you don't care, why should I care?' " Madison Reed, which now does monthly employee surveys, has been able to take action the same day a problem is reported on Glint, according to Errett. And, after gathering feedback from employees frustrated by the speed of decision-making and the quality of communication, she was able to reorganize several teams within the company and add communication training to address the issues. Over at Ruby Tuesday, the company is getting new insight on its employees, and it's hoping that in the long run, this will convert to better retention of workers in an industry known for high turnover. "If you're not committed to creating a culture of transparency, you're going to lose people," Vitrano said. "And if you lose people, you're going to lose customers. And when you lose customers, you're going to lose companies."
The NCAA's elimination of two-a-day practices makes for a long day for the Bruins It's pushing 11 p.m. as a throng of UCLA football players linger to chat on one side of the team's new on-campus practice fields. Some have peeled off their jersey tops, revealing backs slick with sweat from the toil of the first day of training camp. For a good chunk of the team, these idle minutes constitute a midday break. Players enrolled in summer classes will head back to their dorms after the three-hour practice to study for final exams before returning to the Wasserman Football Center for meetings at 6:30 the following morning. "This is a grind for these guys the next three days," Bruins coach Jim Mora said not long before Monday turned into Tuesday. The NCAA's elimination of two-a-day practices, designed to lighten the load on players, has actually lengthened their days - at least until finals end Friday. That's why UCLA's first three practices were scheduled to begin at 7:15 p.m. to accommodate players' already crammed schedules. The trade-off from no two-a-days is more one-a-days, the Bruins pushing up the start of camp nearly a week from last season and holding practices during summer school for the first time during Mora's six seasons in Westwood. They are scheduled to hold 18 practices through Aug. 20 before beginning formal game preparations for their opener against Texas A&M on Sept. Mora said he supported the NCAA's rule change even if it did add another item to players' busy itineraries. "We're putting this enormous load on them for three or four days and it's very challenging," Mora said. "And they've just pushed through it; they grind, they're great kids. I think once we get to Saturday and we'll have more time, it will really be great." UCLA will close its practices once camp is finished, no easy task given the clear sight lines of its fields from an adjacent parking lot and the adjoining Luskin Center, an upscale hotel that has already been pelted with footballs that cleared a protective net behind a goalpost. Bruins players are scheduled to occupy the hotel beginning this weekend, but Mora acknowledged that there could be an issue once those rooms are vacant during the season. "We will have security," Mora said. "That is a real concern and it's not far-fetched to think that people can rent a room and sit up there and videotape a practice. If you have videotape of a practice, it's a pretty good deal. But we'll have security there and we'll have security up in Parking Lot 8. We'll do the best we can with what we got. I'm not going to worry too much about it. We have a plan in place."
Facebook to step up fact-checking in fight against fake news Facebook is to send more potential hoax articles to third-party fact checkers and show their findings below the original post, the world's largest online social network said on Thursday as it tries to fight so-called fake news. The company said in a statement on its website it will start using updated machine learning to detect possible hoaxes and send them to fact checkers, potentially showing fact-checking results under the original article. Facebook has been criticized as being one of the main distribution points for so-called fake news, which many think influenced the 2016 U.S. presidential election. The issue has also become a big political topic in Europe, with French voters deluged with false stories ahead of the presidential election in May and Germany backing a plan to fine social media networks if they fail to remove hateful postings promptly, ahead of elections there in September. On Thursday Facebook said in a separate statement in German that a test of the new fact-checking feature was being launched in the United States, France, the Netherlands and Germany. "In addition to seeing which stories are disputed by third-party fact checkers, people want more context to make informed decisions about what they read and share," said Sara Su, Facebook news feed product manager, in a blog. She added that Facebook would keep testing its "related article" feature and work on other changes to its news feed to cut down on false news.
Building a graphic novel: A Castle in England's story In its recent past, the diminutive Scotney Castle has featured in a Squeeze music video and been a bolthole for Margaret Thatcher during the 1970s and 1980s. But Scotney has witnessed 700 years of tumultuous history from its cosy seat in Bewl River valley in Kent, now inspiration for a graphic novel written by Jamie Rhodes, a mop-haired Yorkshireman with a penchant for historical documents. "I find it so beautiful to look at the handwriting of someone who has been dead for 300 years," he says wistfully. "What a personal connection, to hold that letter in my hand." Spanning the middle ages to the Edwardian era, A Castle in England documents the families that lived in Scotney, with each story illustrated by a different, upcoming UK artist - Isaac Lenkiewicz, Briony May Smith, William Exley, Becky Palmer and Isabel Greenberg. It is not Rhodes's first book based on an archive: he also wrote 2014's Dead Men's Teeth and Other Stories, a collection inspired by documents in the British Library - a project he found unexpectedly emotional. "I welled up at just the thumbprint on the side of a letter, written by a double agent in the 1700s who was working for the Jacobites," he says. "That's his thumbprint! And letters always smell like smoke because, back then, you lit a fire for light. To someone 300 years in the future, the smell makes it feel like they're there, too. Ah, I love archives!" For someone so smitten with old papers, getting support from the National Trust and Arts Council England and living in a castle for almost four months ("I overstayed my welcome a little bit, to be honest") seems too good to be true. Rhodes spent his days exploring the Victorian "new" castle, going through the archives and studying the manor's many treasures and curios, such as the mounted hyena heads on the walls and bottles that had spent centuries in the moat. He wandered the grounds and the ruins of the old castle, talking to rangers, gardeners and sometimes the artists at work on his book's illustrations. Then at night, he'd "drink whiskey and get writing." The intimate history of Scotney is relatively unknown, as the National Trust had only gained full access in 2006 when the final heir, Elizabeth Hussey, died. When Rhodes arrived a decade later, staff were only starting to tackle the archive, which he describes as "hundreds of years of aristocrats going: 'Oh, stick it in the loft'." Diaries, letters from the days of the English empire, maps outlining who owned what: "You'd think land disputes would be boring," says Rhodes, "but there was this one birch tree two families were fighting over. Just let it go, guys!" Some of the stories in the collection use the castle as a jumping-off point to delve more broadly into English history, including The Labourer, which follows a man who leaves the newly built castle to join the 1381 Peasants' Revolt. "There is a record of a riot happening at the castle in 1380, in this book called the Knightly Families of Kent and Sussex," says Rhodes. "The Peasants' Revolt started in that area and I thought, a riot is a good place to start. Maybe the two are connected?" Other stories are rooted firmly in the history of the castle - such as The Priest, which tells the tale of the Jesuit priest whom the Darrell family hid for seven years during the English Reformation. Or The Smuggler, which features 18th-century contrabander Arthur Darrell, who is thought to have staged his own funeral by filling a coffin with rocks (a discovery made years later when his coffin was unearthed). The Darrells are Rhodes's favourite Scotney family: "The gentlemen seemed to be quite roguish, always getting into debt and spending money on things they couldn't afford. Different generations of Darrell men solved their debt crises by marrying rich old women - I imagine them as a bunch of handsome guys, with a knack for wooing heiresses." With his assignment in the castle over, Rhodes is on the hunt for other singular writing experiences. He has completed a two-week stint in the Finnish wilderness for a graphic novel about Elämänmäki, the site of an early 20th-century sanatorium that has since been reclaimed by nature. But Scotney holds a special place for him. "I was sad to leave," he says. "It was like: 'Ah, I've got to go deal with fucking real life now.'"
Washington Changes the Green Card Rules There is going to be new US immigration plan to modify Green Card rules, President Donald Trump said, quoted by the media. It envisages reducing legal immigrants to 50,000 per year, stricter rules for obtaining temporary work visas and restrictions on family-oriented visas. The new rules are proposed by the Republicans and are supported by the president. The draft law is due to be discussed in the two chambers of Congress. "This law will reduce poverty, raise wages and save billions of dollars for taxpayers, and will do this by changing the way the US issues Green Cards to citizens from other countries. The law will reduce chain migration and replace the current scheme. This new application process will benefit candidates who speak English, have financial resources to support themselves and show skills that will benefit our economy," said Trump, quoted by the American media.
The rise of sex robots is real, and we should be concerned Just when you thought 2017 couldn't get any weirder along comes a new report on the technological developments in the sex robot sector. Yep. Sex robots are a big deal right now. Recently, the Foundation for Responsible Robotics (FRR) released a report looking at the development of sex robots over the next five to 10 years. According to Noel Sharkey, emeritus professor of robotics and artificial intelligence at the University of Sheffield and co-founder of the FRR, we need to start taking their rise seriously. Customers can choose the robot's eye colour, nipple shape and fingernail type. "People snigger about them, but the companies are actually shipping quite a lot and we are going to see them a lot more," Mr Sharkey said at the launch of the new report. Modern sex dolls have evolved out of their blow-up counterparts into robots with a silicon skin that is warm to the touch - with deliberately human-like responses achieved by artificial intelligence. The user can also "customise" their robot to suit their persuasions, choosing everything from the robot's eye colour, nipple shape to fingernail type or colour. But it gets even more disturbing, with many of the robots possessing "personalities" that would make a Stepford Wife look progressive. Modern sex dolls have evolved into robots with a silicon skin. The RealBotix robot, for example, allows users to customise their robots according to the traits they find appealing, such as shyness. Then there are the Roxxxy Gold sex robots, developed by True Companion, which come with pre-programmed personalities, including "Frigid Farrah" that gives the impression of shyness and "Wild Wendy" with an "adventurous" personality. "Roxxxy Gold has a personality which is matched as much as possible to your personality," the True Companion website enthuses. So she likes what you like, dislikes what you dislike, etc. She also has moods during the day just like real people! She can be sleepy, conversational or she can 'be in the mood'!" There are many disturbing aspects to the rise of sex robots - not least of which is the replacement of real, human relationships - but the subservient female traits, the rapey connotations of making a move on Frigid (read: resistant) Farrah, are the most concerning. On its website, True Companion likened Roxxxy to a vibrator, but for men. "If woman (sic) can have a vibrator, why can't men have a Roxxxy?" the website states. However, these sex robots are not a mere fetish or just another sex toy. Their emergence and increasing sophistication points to something darker and deeper within our culture, a retreat from the ideal of gender equality toward a desire for sex with subjugation as an optional add-on. Most men, naturally, are not going to keep sex robots, and while the FRR noted their increasing popularity, they remain, for now, on the outskirts of consumer culture. But what seeps in from the fringes can be highly instructive as to the tenor of the era we're living in. And many people aren't weird or offensive until the free market gives them the permission to be so. There is little coincidence that these sophisticated sex robots have emerged at a time when women's rights are under threat across the globe, when there is a president in the White House who has bragged about sexually assaulting women. The most chilling aspect of the TV series The Handmaid's Tale isn't the graphic imagery, the noosed bodies and gouged eyes, but just how realistic that vision feels. The Republic of Gilead is a leap, but, right now, it doesn't feel like a large one. The aim behind these sex robots is to create as much of a physical likeness to actual women (albeit with porn star proportions) as technologically possible. Their creators want them to feel human to the touch, for them to mimic the movement of a real body. But, pointedly, when it comes to their "personalities" the robots do not represent real women. They cannot break up with their companion, or walk out. They have no agency or back-story, nothing to suggest independence or anything that may disrupt the fantasy of total servitude. They are pleasant slaves, in other words. Or to put it into 2017 parlance: handmaidens.
Trump's great feat? Making Mitt Romney seem the epitome of common sense It has become a truism of the Trump era that the political divisions that have polarised the US electorate have, on a micro-scale, torn families apart. Around Christmas and Thanksgiving, newspapers in the US abounded with advice columns on how to deal with the horror of Trump-voting relatives. We are all supposedly straining to burst our filter bubbles. Less remarked on is the power of Trump to bring families together. I mention this because my cousin, a left-leaning poet who lives in Chicago and who's long been at loggerheads with Republicans in our family, has been visiting me in New York this week. She reminded me that unity against a common enemy can have a powerful effect. With Trump in the White House, everyone she knows, including the Republican sibling she had been bickering with about politics for decades, is suddenly and peculiarly on the same side. Around the dinner table this is surely a good thing; but it strikes me that, in a broader context, it carries significant risks. The left has been invigorated by Trump, but the warping effect of his presidency has the power to push us all rightwards. When we talk about "normalisation" and Trump, we are referring to the scary possibility that his antics may one day cease to appal. There is an even scarier long-range scenario, however, in which what Trump "normalises" are rightwing Republicans who, held up against his standards, suddenly seem the epitome of reasonable. I find myself actively nostalgic these days for Mitt Romney's quaint version of crazy - the dog on the car roof, the 14% income tax (but at least we knew what his tax return looked like) - both of which, compared to Trump, seem very mild offences indeed. When Trump goes, the next Republican candidate will merely have to be sane to qualify as an immeasurable improvement. While my cousin was in town, we took our kids to the carousel in Central Park, the biggest of the carousels run by the New York parks department, and the best three bucks you can spend in the city if you don't require caffeine. The horses are thunderously huge, the fibre-glass designs on the central cylinder - all gurning clowns and animals twisting to look over their own shoulders in terror - utterly sinister, and the tinkling music oddly transporting. So many of the cliches of a city disappoint: views from tall buildings get old, skylines grow too familiar to offer much of a thrill, and the reality of the city doesn't live up to the dream. Thirty-five years later and I'm still not entirely over the day I discovered Swiss Cottage is not, in fact, a Swiss cottage - the theme pub, Ye Olde Swiss Cottage, doesn't count - but a large roundabout in north London. The Central Park carousel, however, is still a weirdly magical experience, to the extent that two two-year-olds, an 11-year-old and two women in their 40s can go on it and all have a great time. If I could have rated the carousel I would have given it full marks, but thankfully nobody asked. In a department store this week, on the other hand, I was required, before swiping my credit card, to rate my transactional "experience" on a scale of one to five stars. In the coffee shop at the corner of my street it's the same thing, plus the option to match the rating with a 15% tip - this for buying something over the counter. The effect of this is not only to slow down what should be a neutral exchange, but to put pressure on the server to inject personality into a situation where none is required. The poor woman in the department store stood grinning apologetically while, wearily, I gave the experience of handing her my credit card five stars.
Oscar Pistorius taken from jail to hospital with chest pains This is the second time Pistorius has left jail for a hospital visit. Last year he was taken to the hospital for treatment to cuts on his wrists, which prison authorities said he sustained after falling in his cell. Pistorius was convicted of murder after an appeal by prosecutors against an initial manslaughter verdict. He killed Steenkamp in the early hours of Valentine's Day 2013 by shooting her multiple times through a toilet cubicle door at his Pretoria home. Pistorius claimed he mistook his girlfriend for a nighttime intruder hiding in the cubicle. Prosecutors have announced their intention to appeal again, this time against Pistorius' six-year sentence, which they say is too lenient. The National Prosecuting Authority said it will appeal to South Africa's Supreme Court, and the appeal could be heard this year. Pistorius faces having his sentence increased to 15 years if prosecutors are successful. There is no death penalty in South Africa.
Two Bulgarians Were Detained For Illegal Camping in Greece Two Bulgarians were detained for illegal camping in Greece, the Foreign Affairs Ministry announced, quoted by bTV. A group of illegally camping people, including the two Bulgarians, was detained by the police in Sithonia in the morning of August 1. The same day they were released, while an investigation is currently underway. The ministry of foreign affairs reported bTV that Bulgarians were later released. The Greek authorities have tightened control over free camping and are already imposing serious fines on anyone who is caught resting in a place not intended for the purpose. Checks will continue throughout the season. The ministry said that the court may impose a fine.
Red meat, dairy, and chocolate could help relieve IBD Red meat and chocolate may sound like a nightmare for your digestive system. But a new study claims quite the opposite: a diet rich in meat-based protein and dairy treats could help relieve symptoms of sufferers of inflammatory bowel disease. The incurable condition, which affects around 1.3 million in the US and 300,000 in the UK, causes stomach cramps and bloating, recurring or bloody diarrhea, weight loss and extreme tiredness. While sufferers are usually advised to dodge meat and dairy to soothe their symptoms, researchers at Washington University found protein's essential amino acid tryptophan helps develop immune cells that foster a tolerant gut. Lead investigator Dr Marco Colonna explained immune cells patrol the gut to ensure that harmful microbes hidden in the food don't sneak into the body. Cells that are capable of triggering inflammation are balanced by cells that promote tolerance, protecting the body without damaging sensitive tissues. When the balance tilts too far toward inflammation, inflammatory bowel disease can result. In experiments it was found a kind of tolerance-promoting immune cell appears in mice that carry a specific bacterium in their guts. And the bacterium needs tryptophan - one of the building blocks of proteins - to trigger the cells' appearance. Professor Colonna said: 'We established a link between one bacterial species - Lactobacillus reuteri - that is a normal part of the gut microbiome, and the development of a population of cells that promote tolerance. The more tryptophan the mice had in their diet, the more of these immune cells they had.' He suggested if the same works in humans, a combination of L. reuteri and a tryptophan-rich diet may foster a more tolerant, less inflammatory gut environment. Postdoctoral researcher Dr Luisa Cervantes-Barraganwas studying a kind of immune cell that promotes tolerance when she discovered that one group of study mice had such cells but another group of the same strain but housed separately did not. She suspected the difference had to do with the mice's gut microbiomes - the community of bacteria, viruses and fungi that normally live within the gastrointestinal tract. The guts of the mice were DNA sequenced and it was found six bacterial species present in the mice with the immune cells but absent from the mice without them. Mice reared in a sterile environment so they lacked a gut microbiome and do not develop this kind of immune cell were given L. reuteri and the immune cells arose. To understand how the bacteria affected the immune system, the researchers grew L. reuteri in liquid and then transferred small amounts of the liquid - without bacteria - to immature immune cells isolated from mice. The immune cells developed into the tolerance-promoting cells. When the active component was purified from the liquid, it turned out to be a byproduct of tryptophan metabolism known as indole-3-lactic acid. When the researchers doubled the amount of tryptophan in the mice's feed, the number of such cells rose by about 50 percent but when tryptophan levels were halved, the number of cells dropped by half. Dr Cervantes-Barragan explained people have the same tolerance-promoting cells as mice, and most of us shelter L. reuteri in our gastrointestinal tracts. It is not known whether tryptophan byproducts from L. reuteri induce the cells to develop in people as they do in mice, but defects in genes related to tryptophan have been found in people with inflammatory bowel disease. She said: 'The development of these cells is probably something we want to encourage since these cells control inflammation on the inner surface of the intestines. Potentially, high levels of tryptophan in the presence of L. reuteri may induce expansion of this population.'
Jose Mourinho thinks Manchester United have signed a 'genius' in Nemanja Matic Manchester United have signed a "genius" in Nemanja Matic, believes Jose Mourinho, after the midfielder made his debut against Sampdoria on Wednesday evening. The £40m signing from Chelsea started the 2-1 win in Dublin, United's final preseason game before the Uefa Super Cup against Real Madrid on Tuesday, and impressed in the holding role as the likes of Paul Pogba and Andreas Pereira marauded forward at will. However, having been left out of the Blues' preseason tour of Asia, Matic was severely lacking match fitness and only managed 45 minutes, something Mourinho admitted needed to be improved before the start of the Premier League season. "He needs time but his experience, intelligence, a genius in the way he thinks - he thinks football," Mourinho said. "We will help him to be ready sooner rather than later." As well as Matic, fellow new signings Victor Lindelof and Romelu Lukaku also started the game at the Aviva Stadium as Mourinho started to shape his starting XI for the start of the season. The Independent revealed this week that Mourinho still wanted another three signings but he insisted that the club had already done a "fantastic job" of delivering three of his four priority signings. "To get three out of four I thank the club for that," he added. "I will be happier if they get me four of four but they did a great effort for me."
British inventor microchips himself to get into house and car with a wave of hand A British inventor has become the first in the country to be fitted with a microchip so he can open his front door, access his office and even start his car with just a wave of his hand. Steven Northam, 33, had the tiny chip implanted between his thumb and finger and is now offering the service to businesses and individuals who want to simplify their life with technology through his company BioTeq. He has teamed up with Dr Geoff Watson, a consultant anesthetist at the Royal Hampshire County Hospital in Winchester, Hants, to ensure the implant procedure is carried out to a medical standard. The technology is similar to a microchip implanted for cats and dogs, and takes just 30 seconds. Mr Northam's company will also alter locks on houses and cars so they are compatible with the chip, for a cost of £300 each lock. The married father of one now has technology fitted to both his home and his BMW Z4, which starts when his hand is on the wheel.
White House Prop Cost Taxpayers Thousands The White House's decision to fly a Marine helicopter to the South Lawn for an event highlighting American manufacturing last month cost taxpayers as much as $24,000, according to military records released to TIME. The green-and-white Sikorsky VH-3D, known as Marine One when the President is aboard, was the centerpiece of the July 17 event at the White House showcasing American construction programs. President Donald Trump, Vice President Mike Pence and senior White House officials toured manufacturing products from all 50 states. The Connecticut-made helicopter was displayed alongside a yacht from Maine, a fire truck from Wisconsin, and a forklift from Mississippi. The White House Military Office requested the helicopter's presence in a fragmentary order, or FRAGO, barely 36 hours before the helicopter landed on the South Lawn for the "unusual" event, according to the records of Marine Helicopter Squadron One (HMX-1), the unit responsible for operating the helicopter. "I just wanted you to make sure you were aware because it's such an unusual high visibility event," the commander of HMX-1 emailed his superior, the Marine Deputy Commandant for Aviation, the day before the event. The message indicated the helicopter would arrive on the South Lawn at approximately 7 a.m. on July 17 for the 3 p.m. event, and remain until the lawn was cleared between 6 p.m. and 9 p.m. that evening. The note adds that should the departure from the White House be delayed, a second aircrew would be needed for the return flight due to duty-hour restrictions. The original flight crew was with the helicopter during the event, while unit security personnel remained with the aircraft while it was the ground. It was not clear from records provided to TIME whether a second flight crew was ultimately required. The Hatch Act prohibits federal employees from using government property for political purposes. Records indicate that HMX-1 inquired about whether the event might violate the provision. "One question we asked was if it was a violation of the Hatch Act and were informed it was not," the commander wrote. "Sounds like you are locked," the Deputy Commandant replied. The "Made in America" event was designated an official event by the White House, and would not have been covered by the Hatch Act. But even official events have political overtones. At the event, the President made a push for healthcare reform efforts then underway in the Senate and touted efforts to rein in government regulations. Using the aircraft known as Marine One or Air Force One for politically advantageous purposes is hardly a new phenomenon. Presidents are required to use them for travel. But requisitioning their use solely for a photo-op is unusual. Trump drew scrutiny in February when the presidential airplane taxied to the backdrop of his first campaign rally in Melbourne, Fla., and his Twitter account is flush with messages complaining about his predecessor's use of the presidential aircraft. "The White House is thrilled with the 'Made In America' showcase that featured products from all 50 states that are made by American workers with American materials," said White House deputy press secretary Lindsay Walters. HMX-1 crews frequently perform training flights around the Washington area and at the South Lawn to practice depositing the President of the United States at the White House with inches of precision. When Trump was at the G-20 summit in Germany in early July, HMX-1 conducted 58 practice landings at the White House. The flight for the Made in America event counted toward the aircrew's training requirement for the month, an official said. Unit helicopters also flew an additional 11 hours that day for "non-presidential support missions." The White House said taxpayers did not pick up the burden for any of the other props featured at the event. A spokesperson for Sikorsky said the company was not involved in arranging for the helicopter to be displayed on the South Lawn. HMX-1 doesn't maintain budgetary records for presidential flights, and determining the precise cost incurred by the event is difficult. But according to Department of Defense hourly rates for fiscal year 2017, the DoD reimbursement rate for the VH-3D is $24,380 per flight hour. Unit records record the aircraft flight time as 30 minutes each way from its home base at Marine Corps Air Facility Quantico in Virginia. The White House argues the true cost of operating the helicopter is well below that rate. "To place a cost to taxpayers based on the reimbursement rate estimates is highly misleading," Walters said. "These rate estimates include personnel, maintenance and many other sunk costs that are included in annual appropriations." According to a 2015 RAND study, DoD reimbursement rates do not include the cost of personnel, but do account for fuel, maintenance, and contracting costs. At the time, former White House press secretary Sean Spicer defended the use of the helicopter for the event. "The idea is to showcase this week things that are made in America," Spicer said. "And I know Sikorsky and the state of Connecticut are very proud of the fact that they contribute to our national security, that there are, I assume, hundreds if not thousands of people whose job depends on that. And I think, like most Americans, we're all proud of the helicopter and other military equipment that so many Americans worked tirelessly to do. So, of course, it's appropriate to highlight that." It wasn't clear whether Trump interacted with the helicopter as he toured the South Lawn for the event, but he did step into the driver's seat of a fire truck. Inside the White House, Trump addressed Sikorsky representatives, joking with the media about his own fleet of company products. "I know Sikorsky very well," the President said, "I have three of them."
Narcos season 3 trailer: With Pablo Escobar gone, the Cali Cartel take centre stage in Netflix's hit series Despite season two of Narcos revealing Pablo Escobar's killer, Netflix's series is far from over. Season three and four have already been confirmed by the streaming service, the former receiving its first trailer, teasing the show's upcoming villains. With season three, the DEA has turned their attention towards the richest drug trafficking organisation in the world: the Cali Cartel. Led by four powerful godfathers, they operate "like a Fortune 500 company" just with more government bribes and violent actions. Gilberto Rodriguez Orejuela (Damian Alcazar) is the cartel's leader, Miguel Rodriguez Orejuela (Francisco Denis) being the brains, Pacho Herrera (Alberto Ammann) running the Mexican connection, and Chepe Santacruz Londono (Pepe Rapazote) based in New York. The newly released trailer sees Pedro Pascal return as Javier Peña, the character enlisting American and Colombian law enforcement to help with the war on drugs. Other new actors include Matias Varela, Michael Stahl-David, Matt Whelan, Miguel Angel Silvestre, Kerry Bishe, and Arturo Castro. Season three of Narcos will debut 1 September.
Afghan democracy depends on political role for women, U.N. says Elections can only be representative if all members of society, including women, play a role, the head of the U.N. mission in Afghanistan said Wednesday. Nicholas Haysom, acting head of the U.N. Assistance Mission said hundreds of women are running in provincial council elections, three women are running for vice president and more than 30 percent of the newly-registered voters are women. "The role of women cannot be overstated," he said in a statement Wednesday. Elections can only be truly representative and credible when women fully participate and are included in all parts of the electoral process. Afghan provincial council and presidential elections take place April 5. The Taliban has issued threats against an election process that coincides with the transition of international combat operations to an advisory role. This year's elections mark the first time power is handed peacefully from one democratically elected government to the next. Haysom said a strong role for women will add to Afghanistan's democratic success. The Afghan Independent Election Commission reports 1.2 million women are registered out of 3.6 million total registered voters.
GMB concern over investment at McVitie's Glasgow factory A union is seeking reassurance from managers at biscuit maker McVitie's over its long-term commitment to production at its factory in Glasgow. GMB Scotland said the company had been silent over the future of investment at the Tollcross site. More than 500 people work at the plant, which produces Hobnobs and Rich Tea biscuits, among other products. McVitie's owner Pladis said it had invested more than £5m at the site in the last few years. It added employees and union representatives "will be the first to know" if there were any changes to its operations. In a letter to the company's site manager, GMB Scotland called on McVitie's to "address concerns that funding is not being brought forward for the modernisation of production lines." GMB senior organiser Drew Duffy, said: "The fact that we cannot get clarity from the general site manager over the business needs and investment plan for the future of Tollcross is deeply concerning our members. Generations of families have worked here and the workforce is highly concentrated in the local community and the greater Glasgow area, a crucial pillar of decent employment in an area of high unemployment and social deprivation. So, from the perspective of jobs, pay and prosperity, and against the backdrop of Brexit, rising cost of living and chronic manufacturing decline, the east end of Glasgow desperately needs a thriving manufacturing presence at McVitie's." A spokeswoman for Pladis said: "The site manager at Tollcross received a letter from GMB Scotland only yesterday and the company will be responding directly as we value ongoing engagement with employees and union representatives. We had a regular meeting with employees and GMB representatives at Tollcross two months ago at which a number of issues were discussed openly. We discussed with employees then that like all companies operating in an extremely competitive and uncertain economic climate, we review our operations on an ongoing basis - and that applies across our all our businesses and sites - in order to remain competitive. She added: "In recent years, we have invested over £5m in our Tollcross site, notably on production lines and operational improvements. We fully recognise the heritage of Tollcross as a manufacturing site and should there be any changes to our operations at the site, employees and their union representatives will be the first to know."
Did PSG warn Barcelona about move for Neymar three years ago? La Liga side may rue their interest in Marco Verratti Paris Saint-Germain will not let up in their pursuit of Neymar after lodging a £189m offer to trigger his release clause, but did they warn Barcelona of the world-record raid three years ago? The sensational approach has lit up the summer transfer window, with the Ligue 1 club ready to break the world transfer record by more than double the previous mark, which saw Paul Pogba return to Manchester United last season for £89m. Once completed, the move will see Neymar become the world's most expensive player and also the highest-paid professional sportsman in the world, with PSG offering wages of over £500,000-a-week after tax. Barcelona are known to be furious with the manner of the approach and the way that Neymar has forced his way out, despite a source close to the Catalans' board insisting that the club have always done their best to look after him since his arrival from Santos in 2013. But was the football world warned of this prospect three years ago by the PSG president? When Manchester City expressed an interest in signing Blaise Matuidi in 2014, Nasser Al-Khelaifi had a stern warning for any club looking to sign one of PSG's best players. "I am not worried because they know that if they touch one of our players, then we will be in opposition to them, we'll contact their players," Al-Khelaifi said. "We respect all clubs. But if they try to sign one of our players, they'll face consequences." Barcelona appear to have crossed this line, with the Spanish club expressing an interesting in PSG midfielder Marco Verratti earlier this summer. PSG made it clear that they would not allow the Italy international to leave under any circumstances, and Barcelona could well be feeling the repercussions of that interest by losing one of their prize assets in Neymar.
