Obama receives Netanyahu The relationship between Obama and Netanyahu is not exactly friendly. The two wanted to talk about the implementation of the international agreement and about Teheran's destabilising activities in the Middle East. The meeting was also planned to cover the conflict with the Palestinians and the disputed two state solution. Relations between Obama and Netanyahu have been strained for years. Washington criticises the continuous building of settlements in Israel and accuses Netanyahu of a lack of initiative in the peace process. The relationship between the two has further deteriorated because of the deal that Obama negotiated on Iran's atomic programme, . In March, at the invitation of the Republicans, Netanyahu made a controversial speech to the US Congress, which was partly seen as an affront to Obama. The speech had not been agreed with Obama, who had rejected a meeting with reference to the election that was at that time impending in Israel.
Munich, Sylt und Co.: the five most exclusive residential areas in Germany The most expensive residential developments are located here in Hobookenweg - with a view over the North Sea mudflats. On this road one square metre of a thatched house costs an average of €73,300. "On Sylt, the number of properties on offer is naturally limited," says a study - hence the high prices. This new study indicates the particular locations with the most expensive accommodation per square metre. Of course, €18.70 per square metre for student digs in Munich is not really low. Compared with Germany's top areas, however, this price seems likes peanuts. Property service Engel & Volkers has published a league table of the most exclusive residential areas in Germany - with staggeringly high prices per square metre. More than €10,000 is nothing there - per quare metre, mind you. Ok, if you can't afford it... Incidentally, for once Munich is not in the lead.
Champions League: Bayern off to a dream start thanks to Müller and Götze Double goal scorer in Piraeus: Bayern star Thomas Müller is simply on a roll. A lucky goal from Thomas Müller paved the way for a 3:0 victory for FC Bayern at Olypiacos Piraeus - then it got better. A confident start to the Champions League season. World champions Thomas Müller and Mario Götze brought about a dream start to their "Milan Mission" in the seething cauldron at Pireaus. Trainer Pep Guardiola's team won their opening match in the Champions League in a hot atmosphere away to the Greek record holders, thanks to Müller's brace (52nd and 90th minutes +2) and Götze's goal (89th minute), ending in a score of 3:0 (0:0). The twelfth successful start in a row should be the first step toward the final in Italy on 28 May 2016, where Guardiola wants to end his third attempt by taking the trophy back to Munich. With his 28th goal in the Champions League, Müller took Bayern into the lead with the gracious help of Olymiacos goalie Roberto, who let through a cross shot from the world champion. "We aren't going to underestimate them," promised Bayern captain Phillipp Lahm before the game in the Karaiskakis Stadium in front of 31,688 hot-blooded fans - and the Munich player kept his word. They demonstrated a concentrated and committed performance without being showy. Piraeus had won their six most recent premiere class home games, including against prominent clubs such as Manchester United, Atletico Madrid and Juventus Turin. In 2011 Borussia Dortmund stumbled here too. But Bayern, undefeated in seven Europa Cup duels with Greek teams, did not want to be the next victim. They went to work boldly, but often too uninspired in their offensive efforts. Attacks were too often initiated by bringing left winger Douglas Costa, who rarely got past former Brunswick player Omar Elabdellaoui, into play. Müller had more luck from the right when his cross shot from right field drove into the top left corner of the goal. In the 67th minute the world champion missed the chance of taking the match to 2:0. Robert Lewandowski had the best opportunities in the first half. First when Olympiacos striker Ideye Brown hit the Pole's header from the line in the 26th minute. Then with a shot which the goalie parried with his knee in the 35th minute. Although Bayern is used to playing a dominant game, Piraeus were able to needle them. But they could count on goalkeeper Manuel Neuer. For example when he steered a shot from Ideye over the crossbar in the 56th minute. Guardiola had a four-man backfield defence deployed in front of Neuer, with David Alba in the centre next to Jerome Boateng. Mario Götze, back in the squad following muscle problems, initially sat on the sidelines. The world cup hero had only been given the green light following final training, said Sporting Director Matthias Sammer on Sky: "If anyone wants to make something else out of that, they are being malicious." At the first change, Guardiola decided against him, when he brought in Kingsley Coman for the stricken Lewandowski in the 59th minute. Götze came late for Arturo Vidal in the 76th minute and proved himself 13 minutes later; Müller put another one in with a penalty. Before the match there was a riot in the stadium. After a small group of Bayern fans, some wearing masks, had apparently provoked supporters of hosts Piraeus from behind their fence with words and gestures, security forces attacked them and used batons against the Munich supporters. At least one Bayern fan was taken injured from the stadium.
Smokers at a greater risk of losing teeth Smokers damage not only their lungs but also their teeth, concludes a long-term study in Potsdam. The good news is: if you give up the risk decreases fast. Smokers have a significantly increased risk of losing their teeth early. This emerges from a long-term study by an international team of researchers, including a number of employees of the German Institute for Nutritional Research (DIfE) in Potsdam. Compared to non-smokers, the risk of losing their teeth prematurely is between 2.5 and 3.6 times higher for smokers. The scientists monitored more than 23,300 participants. The main reasons for tooth loss are caries and inflammation of the gums, the DIfE states. Smoking is a risk factor for this periodontitis, emphasise the authors. The connection between smoking and loss of teeth can therefore be attributed to more frequent gum inflammation in smokers. It has not been clarified to what extent smoking raises the risk of caries. People who stop smoking could reduce their risk within a short time, the researchers write in the "Journal of Dental Research." It could however take 10 years before the danger once more drops to the level of non-smokers', declared lead author Thomas Dietrich of the University of Birmingham in England. People should be persuaded to become non-smokers, declared study leader Heiner Boeing of DIfE: "Smoking shortens the lifespan." Not smoking is good for the lungs and vessels and in our experience leads to good dental health to an advanced age. In Germany over 20 percent of the population in the 65 to 74 age group are affected by toothlessness, according to the DIfE. Earlier studies had already indicated that smoking increases the risk of early tooth loss. The new long term study substantiates these findings.
Archaeologists discover ancient remains on the banks of the Rhine at Cologne Archaeological finds have again been made on the right bank of the Rhine in Cologne. Archaeologists from the Roman Germanic Museum have unearthed skeletons and remains of historical buildings near the site where the new Rhine Boulevard is being constructed , said museum Director Marcus Trier on Tuesday. Historians have been in search of so-called architectural monuments since the start of construction work on the Rhine. The museum, as the department for archaeological monument conservation, is always consulted when construction projects are carried out in the city district of Cologne. The archaeologists made a find in the third construction phase of the Rhein Boulevard. It is already known from text documents that a fortress stood on this spot in the 4th century, and in the 8th century a church, explained Trier. Besides the remains of the fortress and the church tower, a cemetery with around 350 graves, which probably belonged to the church, has also been discovered.
Young woman hit by goods train After a young woman met with an accident at the station in Geilenkirchen-Lindern, police are asking for help from the general public. Early on Wednesday morning, at about 1:40 a.m., the young woman crossed the tracks at the end of the platform coming from the direction of the station building and was hit by a goods train coming from the direction of Mönchengladbach. According to the Federal police she suffered severe injuries from the accident. She was treated at the site by an emergency doctor and taken to hospital by ambulance. Investigating officers have no idea why the young woman was crossing the tracks at night. It is possible that the event was observed by witnesses or residents may have heard something. This may apply to residents of or people passing by the Lindern station, Ziegelbäckerweg, Thomashofstrasse and Leiffarther Strasse (L364). Any information that can be provided about the cause of the accident can be given by calling the free 24-hour police hotline on 0800/688 8000 or at any police station.
EU Commission proposes new court in controversy over TTIP To defuse the controversy over the planned Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, TTIP, the EU Commission has proposed a substantial reform of the current arbitration system. According to this, the disputed private arbitration board for conflicts between corporations and countries would be replaced by a transparent system which corresponds considerably more in its function to traditional courts. "We want to set up a system which citizens trust," stated the responsible EU Commissioner, Cecilia Malström, when introducing it. The Swede plans to introduce the proposal as the European negotiating position in the free trade talks with the USA. The German government has announced its support. The creation of TTIP will result in the largest free trade zone in the world, covering 800 million people. Plans for reform of the current arbitration procedure specifically provide for the EU states and the USA to jointly select independent judges for a new investment court. They should come in equal proportions from the EU, the USA and from non-member countries. For the first time, a second instance is also provided for. This would allow for appeals to be made against judgements. Up to now, the parties to proceedings have agreed on the arbitrator among themselves and there has been no possibility of appeal against their judgements. In the discussions over the past months it has become clear that citizens do not trust the old ISDS system to be fair and just, commented Malström. In the long term, according to her statement, she wants to aim at an international investment court. In this, for example, disputes between Chinese companies and EU countries could be cleared up. Investor State Dispute Settlement (ISDS), which is required particularly by large companies, is said to be one of the main reasons for the stiff opposition to the TTIP in Europe. Traditional arbitration courts are criticised by adversaries as a form of parallel justice through which companies are able to fight for compensation at the expense of tax payers, make national laws null and void, or enforce a lowering of consumer and environmental protection standards. In initial reactions, anti TTIP organisations such as Capact called the EU Commission's proposals inadequate. There was criticism in particular that they would not apply to the already negotiated free trade agreement with Canada (Ceta). The German Secretary of State for the Economy, Matthias Machnig (SPD), on the other hand, referred to the plans as major progress. The Commission included in the reforms key points which Federal Economics Minister Sigmar Gabriel developed with other EU trade ministers. The old system of private arbitration courts is off the table. The French government, too, welcomed Malström's plans. The European business association BusinessEurope warned against restricting the options for industry to take legal action with too many new rules. Small and medium sized enterprises in particular could be disadvantaged, they said. When talks over the TTIP free trade agreement can be concluded was still unclear on Wednesday. Negotiations have been taking place since the middle of 2013. The issue of investor protection, however, has to date not been discussed with the USA. It was originally planned for a structure for the agreement to be completed by the end of this year. This date is no longer tenable.
Exquisite folk from Sufjan Stevens in Hamburg Eleven years ago, Sufjan Stevens sits on the stage in the Prime Club (now Luxor) in Cologne. Beside him stands a flip chart on which the shy-seeming folk singer has drawn the picturesque US state of Michigan in felt-tip pen. The entire audience, some 40 people, is virtually mesmerised by Stevens's performance. Referring to different places, which each time he marks on the map, he talks about the stories behind his meticulously and subtly contrived songs. Where they originated, and what it looks like, in his home country. Since then Stevens has proved himself to be a wonderfully creative nutcase. His third album, "Greetings from Michigan: the Great Lake State," released in 2003, features cleverly composed songs which cling harmonically to the traditions of American folk rock of the late sixties, but which might drift at any time into amazing opulence. Rumour has it that "Michigan" was the first part of a bold series: it was to have been followed by songs about each of the 50 United States. But in 2004 in the Rhine area, "Seven Swans" came out, bursting positive expectations. Stevens seems to have downsized here. Playing live he only needs a guitar and banjo. One year later the New York-based musician returns to his series. With "Illinois" ("Sufjan Stevens Invites You To: Come On Feel The Illinoise") in 2005, a widely acclaimed masterpiece is released. Exuberant with ideas and stylistic sophistication. The album climbs the American Billboard charts and appears in every best album of the year list in the influential music press. After extremely productive experiments Stevens then serves up "The Age of Adz" (2010), an elaborate electronic set piece. This sixth proper studio album is still broadly orchestrated, but supported by programmed sequences or beats and plays with a variety of effects and echoes. Long since moved on from the smaller clubs, the stage shows here are becoming colourful spectacles with neon headbands and huge fluorescent stage decorations. Currently Sufjan Stevens is touring Germany as part of a five-man band. Hamburg Mehr kept in the dark! Since March the theatre has primarily presented "Carrie and Lowell." Although an audience of almost 2000 sit spellbound in their seats, the clearly more mature Stevens returns to intimacy and to folk. Without directing a word at the public the group of excellent musicians plays through the widely enriched album. From the audience one can hear: the performance is more "opulent" and it makes you want to "chuck away the album." Only with his encore does Stevens give his modest thanks, play a few of his older songs acoustically and finally take a bow to thunderous applause.
Justin Bieber in the capital city: on a Bieber expedition in Berlin Justin Bieber, megastar. A ridiculous 21 years young, a wimpy kid with a too trendy haircut. The guy with the platinum blond hair is worth a hundred million euros. Probably even more. At the moment Monsieur Bieber is in Berlin. And the under-17 generation is going berserk. Like Wiktoria Rudzinska. The 15-year-old has never heard the name Ritz Carlton. Not so bad. Hundreds of fans accompanied Justin yesterday. Including Eva and Viktoria from Poland. But the Poles have been sitting on the cold stone slab in front of the luxury Berlin hotel on the Potsdamer Platz since 7 o'clock in the morning. The Bieber building: their idol, whose face appears on huge numbers of posters in Szczecin, has been staying here since Monday evening. The suite where the Canadian singer is staying costs as much for one night as her mother Ewa earns in six months. At least. She says: "My Viktoria should really be sitting in the 10th class in the grammar school at the moment." "I'm fulfilling her dream for her." Compulsory education? Who wants that? Not the fans. Nor Bieber himself. He is financially secure anyway. He is earning three million for advertising in the commercial break at the Super Bowl, a two-year deal with an anti-spot company pours many many dollars into Bieber's account. And for every doll that looks like him and passes over the counter Bieber cashes in as well. When Justin Bieber drinks coffee people goggle through the window. He has looted more than a hundred million like that. Some say the hype goes too far. Others point out that after all Bieber is charting in both the USA and Great Britain with his new single "What do you mean?" at number one. Bieber himself, whose new album is due out in November, is not interested in all those zeros. At least that's what he says.
Pegida poster suggests the idea of potato doner kebabs to Lebanese man Potatoes or doner kebab? You can have both - in the potato kebab that Oldenburg snack bar owner Hani Alhay has created. Inspired by the slogan "potatoes instead of kebabs" on a Pegida movement poster, Alhay put potatoes and meat together on a skewer. A poster at a Pegida demonstration with the slogan "Potatoes instead of kebabs" which he happened to see on television gave him the idea. Since then a spit laden with meat and potatoes has been rotating in his shop. "That is multi-cultural food!" says Alhay. Now he has registered his idea at the patent office in Munich. According to officials there it is now protected as a registered design. Because of this, Alhay does not want to reveal how much meat and how many potatoes the spit holds. Just enough so that, "They taste much better together," he reckons. Customers also appreciate this international culinary understanding.
Pleasant temperatures for bathing: the eastern Mediterranean is currently as warm as 29 degrees Even if peak levels are only measured in the distance, a trip to the Mediterranean is enough for beach lovers to find warm water. A dip in the North Sea or the Baltic Sea can only be a brief treat with temperatures at a maximum of 17 degrees. Many people no longer go into the sea: the water in the North Sea and the Baltic this week is a maximum of 18 degrees, according to the German meteorological office (DWD). The Mediterranean, by contrast, offers suitable temperatures for bathing: in the east they are as high as 29 degrees. In the Adriatic peak temperatures are 25 degrees, and in France 23 degrees. The Red Sea in Egypt is 28 degrees.
Officials from Aich-Dob in court for breach of trust Two officials from the Austrian volleyball runner-up champion team Aich-Dob attended the Klagenfurt regional court on Wednesday to answer charges of breach of trust and tax evasion. The defendants pleaded not guilty. One of them had also also been charged with abuse of his position. He was legally acquitted of this charge in May. The current case was adjourned. According to senior Public Prosecutor Robert Riffel, it emerged during preliminary investigations that in the years 2006 to 2011 the defendants used monies from the club's accounts, to which they had access due to their roles, for private purposes. The loss is estimated at around €400,000. The sports officials are also accused of financial offences. The Chairwoman of the Lay Judge Senate, Judge Michaela Sanin, ordered proceedings on this fact to be postponed. It will be tried at a later date. On the charge of breach of trust, the defence argued that the club had never at any time suffered any pecuniary disadvantage The sports officials had only offset expense allowances, and brought the sports club for which they worked from 1982 to 2011, and in which they had invested much time and money, out of debt - liabilities in 2001 amounted to around 600,000 Schillings (around €44,000). "At that time we were faced with the situation of whether we should continue with the club or close it down," said one of the defendents, who makes his living as an auditor of large companies for the tax authorities. With his colleague and co-defendant, he had then resolved to undertake this task. With all the risks. "We advanced money and deposited our life insurance policies with the bank as security," he said during the examination. It was agreed with the club that they had a free hand to manage the money, but they were not permitted to run up any debts. Furthermore, if there was appropriate financial success, retrospective payment of the expense allowance back to 1991 was agreed. As a result, a part of the expense allowance was paid off years later, that is to say from the year 2003 when the account went into credit. This is why general and not detailed debit entries appeared, was the former chairman's explanation for the processes. The two defendants managed the accounts and passbooks together, said the second defendant. The Judge asked why the payments had not been disclosed to the club in detail. The club was not interested in details of the financial arrangements, it was only important that it should be debt free, was the answer. When investigations into abuse of his position against one of the officers began in 2011, a sum of €120,000 was transferred into the club's account. Those were reserves, explained the defendant. This securities account was run in the name of the two defendants and according to a statement by the club its existence was not known to the club. "Why?" the Judge wanted to know. There was no answer to this for a long time. Then he finally said that he had thought it would be best for the club. Had something happen to him then nobody would have known anything about this money, the State Prosecutor put to the room. The co-defendant knew about it, the official justified himself. The purpose of the transfer was given as compensation for damages. "Why compensation for damages?" the Judge and the State Prosecutor wanted to know. In response, the first defendant said that he had disagreed with this wording because no damage had ever occurred to the club. But what can I do when the lawyer says, "This lets us all off the hook"? "Am I a legal representative?" he asked. The official carried on that he had never received a cent in salary, he had only charged for mileage and a per diem allowance. The club had set aside €1,000 per month for per diem allowances, which were in fact expenses which would have been much higher, he added. The defendants were not able to provide accurate documentation for the earlier years. This was no longer kept since an audit in which everything was properly assessed, they explained. The second defendant had also obtained a mileage allowance. All adjustments were made in cash, for which he had to drive from his home in Völkermarkt to the bank in Bleiburg, he explained in his statement. The trial will continue on 23 September with the questioning of witnesses.
Hewlett Packard cutting a further 30,000 jobs In addition to the job cuts that have been taking place for the past three years, the computer giant is going to lay off even more staff with the splitting of the company. There seems to be no end to the job cuts at the US computer giant Hewlett-Packard (HP). As part of its restructuring, the US technology group plans to lay off between 25,000 and 30,000 staff in its corporate customer section. This should lead to cost savings of around $2.7 billion (€2.4 billion), the company disclosed on Tuesday. The step will lead to a one-off charge of around $2.7 billion, which will be incurred in the fourth quarter. The reduction of 55,000 jobs which has been taking place for three years is not yet completed. At the end of the 2013/14 business year HP still employed around 302,000 staff. At the end of trading Hewlett-Packard shares had fallen by 2.3 percent. The group based in Palo Alto, California, which initially grew through its printer sales, is currently splitting its business: this year the computer and printer side will be combined in a new company, separated from the the promising areas of computer servers and data storage for business as well as other services. Both operations will be listed on the stock exchange. Repeatedly disappointing sales of PCs as well as a slow demand from business customers for their services have recently afflicted the world's second-largest PC manufacturer after Lenovo. In the third fiscal quarter to the end of July, sales of PCs and printers fell by 11.5 percent. Revenue dropped by eight percent to just under $25.4 billion. This means profits have dropped in 15 out of 16 quarters. HP responded to the changes in the industry with a split and massive layoffs. The 76-year-old business headed by Meg Whitman has been slow to react to the rise in customers buying smartphones and tablets instead of conventional computers and equally carrying out business more and more online. Whitman's plans for restructuring include around 55,000 job losses.
Conflicts: the majority support anti ISIS training mission The majority of people, however, are opposed to direct involvement of German soldiers in combat operations in Iraq: 54 percent were against it, 35 percent have expressed themselves in favour. Sixty-one percent reacted positively to other countries carrying out air attacks against ISIS in Iraq and Syria. Twenty-four percent are against intervening in the conflict. Fifty-one percent of those surveyed are against cooperating with the Syrian ruler Bashar al-Assad, but 20 percent were in favour. Twenty-nine percent were undecided.
Cars: Second press day at the 66th IAA At the centre of the exhibition until 27 September are interlinked, self driving cars as well as electro-mobility. After two press days, Chancellor Angela Merkel will officially open the 66th International Automobile Exhibition, whose motto is "Mobility Connects," on Thursday. The general public can visit the IAA from Saturday. The organisers from the automobile Association VDA estimate that approximately 900,000 visitors, similar to 2 years ago, will attend.
Röszke: outbreak of violence on the Serbian-Hungarian border The Hungarian police have used tear gas and water cannons against several hundred angry refugees on the Serbian border near Röszke. Euronews correspondent Dániel Bozsik witnessed the outbreak of violence at the border control point. He reported by telephone: A group of refugees broke through the border. A line of police was formed behind it and behind the police a water cannon stood at the ready. Between 40 and 50 refugees started to throw stones, sticks and plastic bottles at the officers. At first the officers used a continuous spray of pepper spray. Then the police used tear gas. A lot of tear gas was sprayed in the direction of the refugees. This caused the group to break up. The group has now reluctantly withdrawn. A pregnant and obviously injured woman has been carried away from the area. Children who have inhaled tear gas are screaming. Other refugees have slumped down together and are suffering from respiratory distress. The press spokesman for the Serbian police also sustained injuries from the use of tear gas and pepper spray.
Eurowings: Lufthansa reconstructing group Lufthansa is planning a major reconstruction of its group. The Lufthansa group will save half a billion Euros per year through improvements to the organisation alone. Reconstruction of the group will cost 150 of the approximately 1,000 managers worldwide their jobs. Meanwhile new negotiations are being carried out with the pilots' union. Lufthansa is reorganising the structure of its business and upgrading its low-cost subsidiary Eurowings. The goal of the realignment is a contribution to profits of around €500 million per year from cost and revenue synergies, the airline announced on Wednesday. Among other things, Lufthansa in the future will have no executive board for the passenger business. The Eurowings budget airline will instead be developed to become as independent as possible. In the future, Karl Ulrich Garnadt will be responsible for Eurowings on the management board headed by Carsten Spohr. With this new realignment Spohr underlines the importance of Eurowings, with which the group wants to compete against Ryanair and Easyjet in the future. Up to now the organisation of the 120,000 employees has been extremely complex. The airline is consolidating the passenger airline group, which provides three quarters of the annual turnover of €30 billion, under one umbrella. New negotiations with pilots Following the strike which was halted on legal grounds, negotiations with the pilots' union Cockpit (VC) in the pay dispute will be resumed on Thursday. This was announced by the union. Under discussion will be the pilots' retirement scheme. "In a year with record results predicted" Cockpit wants to come up with a viable solution as quickly as possible The conflict between the union and the airline had led to a number of strikes over the past months. Besides the pilots' transitional pension payments, the background is the "Wings" budget concept. It proposes that in the battle against competitive routes Lufthansa outsources to the group's own budget airline, Eurowings.
Paintings by Leena Krüger are on view in the Künstlerhaus under the title "Morning Train to the South." The Finn, who has long been a resident of Göttingen, has assembled a selection of untitled works, which encourage viewers to embark on an intellectual journey, for the Weisser Saal in the gallery.
Terraced houses for refugees, single parents, low earners Property entrepreneur Markus Gildner is building terraced houses in the Middle Franconian town of Eckental for people who do not have much money. For example for refugees - but also as a sign: "Not only refugees need accommodation, but also single mothers and people on low incomes." "I am demonstrating how it is still possible to build economically and well nowadays," says the 44-year-old in an interview. Thousands of refugees are pushing their way onto the housing market. Entrepreneur Marcus Gildner believes he knows how quickly economical housing can be developed: with this project he is building terraced houses for refugees. Mr Gildner, thousands of refugees are coming onto the housing market. What solution are you offering? Markus Gildner: Mass accommodation in containers and gyms is not sustainable. Because most of the people will be staying here. We will also need sufficient housing space to accommodate the influx of refugees over the next decades. A totally standard three-storey terraced house is the solution. Gildner: A terraced house needs little space. It facilitates integration. It is different when the people are housed in blocks of flats. Each of the six houses which are currently being built in the pilot project consists of three living units each for four asylum seekers. Each living unit has two bedrooms, one bathroom, one kitchen and a lounge. It's possible that many refugees will say; now that peace has returned I'm going back. Then the houses can easily be converted for different uses. What are the costs? Gildner: The price for 160 m² of living space per house amounts to €184,000 without land. That is manageable. Construction took six months. That is reasonable. Did building regulations complicate your plans? Gildner: I carried out my project in accordance with building regulations. The sword of Damocles threatening special building projects, and parking space regulations, always make it complicated. Scary. It is still assumed that anyone creating three flats in a terraced house needs at least three parking places. Except that there is not enough space in towns. And refugees and asylum seekers have no cars. How have residents reacted to your terraced house project? Gildner: There were some who accused me of building luxury accommodation for asylum seekers. That is definitely not true. But aren't you making the competition for affordable housing worse? Gildner: The truth is over the last five years we have had a building boom in Germany, but it is luxury accommodation that has been built, which hardly anybody can afford any longer. My project gives the message that normal people need housing space too. Not only refugees need accommodation, but also single mothers and people on low incomes. I am demonstrating how it is still possible to build economically and well nowadays. This is what it is about. Marcus Gildner (44) studied microsystems technology in Regensburg and initially worked in environmental analysis.
Rosberg's only motto: full attack Nico Rosberg knows only one motto in his fight for the Formula One world championship title against his clearly leading Mercedes teammate Lewis Hamilton: "Full attack." The world championship runner-up stressed before the start of the decisive seven overseas races "that I've got nothing more to lose." Before the night race in Singapore this Sunday, 53 points divide the vice world champion from the titleholder and two times champion Hamilton. The Brit has already won seven of the 12 races of the season to date and is also starting the floodlit Grand Prix in the city state as favourite. In 2009 and in the preceding year the 30-year-old Brit was able to win the race. Whether the current smog in the city state will have any influence on the Grand Prix in Singapore is as yet unclear. A pall of smog has been hanging over the city for days, caused by fires on the neighbouring island of Sumatra.
Bad Kissinger chess club has a prominent member The "Chess friends of Bad Kissingen" chess club, founded three months ago, has admitted another member to its ranks, taking the number of members to 19 players. The new member is businessman Paul Gauselmann, a passionate chess and tennis player, who has stayed in Bad Kissingen more than 40 times for spa treatments. Gauselmann is a holder of the Federal Cross of Merit 1st class and is a freeman of the towns of Espelkamp and Lübbecke. Gauselmann supported the chess club in Bad Kissingen with a donation which was accepted by chairman Alfred Klein. This makes it possible to take on members who cannot afford the membership fee Youth work and talent searches can also be pursued. Gauselmann wants his membership of the chess club as well as his friendly contact with the "Red-white" tennis club to be seen as an expression of his ties with the spa town.
Accommodation office seeks face-to-face contact Saludis and the Antonistift retirement centre have grouped together under the mantle of a social foundation and opened a new contact point on Graf-Stauffenberg-Platz. In addition to obtaining advice it is also possible to participate in courses there. The social foundation is moving down from the mountain into the town centre. More precisely, to Graf-Stauffenberg-Platz. A new accommodation office will be opening there shortly. Here, directly next to the shopping centre, senior citizens and other people seeking advice can with immediate effect receive information on issues such as nursing insurance or the services of nursing and health insurance companies. With our outpatient care service we have for years realised that family caregivers are often left alone. This raises numerous questions. "Not infrequently, too, many services provided by insurers are not used because the complexity of the insurance is so difficult to understand," the new manager, Jutta Weigand, who as head of the services division for old people's welfare is also responsible for the Antonistift and the Bürgerspital as well as for "Amadeus" outpatient services, explained. Apart from advice, the new accommodation office also offers courses in prevention, health and wellness. Saludis has been taken on board for this. As a result, additional offerings such as prevention of falls, memory training or physiotherapy treatment are also available. The offers from the senior citizens centre and from Saludis complement each other perfectly. Saludis represents prevention, precaution, and rehabilitation. "The senior citizens' centre for care and nursing," is how Heike Riedel, managing director of Saludis describes it. Both managers see the reason behind the opening of the new accommodation office in the town centre as democratic change, as this makes a good decentralised infrastructure in the individual districts of Bamberg essential in the future. Furthermore, as Mayor Wolfgang Metzner (SPD) underlined at the opening ceremony, the accommodation office is also dedicated to dealing with the isolation of old people. "There are numerous activities and offers on the programme and these extend invitations to regular social gatherings." Thus the social foundation makes a big contribution towards making senior citizens as independent as possible and towards enabling them to live well in their familiar environment. The accommodation office is open Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m., Tuesday and Thursday from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. and Saturdays from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m.
Eintracht Bamberg vs Würzburger Kickers on 6 October It's now official: after the fixture for the FC Eintracht Bamberg match against third leaguers Würzburger Kickers could not be settled due to repair works at the Fuchspark stadium, the date has now been set for 6 October. The meeting between FC Eintracht Bamberg and third league FC Würzburger Kickers in the last 16 of the Bavarian football pools cup is now finally scheduled. The match will kick-off on Tuesday, 6 October at 7 p.m. in Bamberg's Fuchspark Stadium. "We are happy that we now know when the match is going to happen; we can make plans now," says FCE team manager KarlheinzHümmer, confirming that ticket sales are now open. It's something special for our team to be playing against a third league team. We are hoping to get a large number of spectators, and not without reason, because floodlit games have a special appeal. FC Eintracht Bamberg moved into the last 16 with their victory against district league no. 1 FC Oberhaid (3:1) and at home against regional league no. 1 FC Schweinfurt 05 (3:2). The winner of the competition receives €5000 and qualifies for the first round of the DFB club cup 2016/2017. The defending champions are SpVgg Unterhaching, who have been relegated to the third league.
Viennese architect Karl Mang dies at the age of 92 Karl Mang, one of the doyens of Viennese architecture, is dead. He died on 5 September at the age of 92, according to the Künstlerhaus on Tuesday. In Meng the Künstlerhaus has lost an honourary member and at the same time "one of the most important architects of the second half of the 20th century in Vienna," it is reported. Born in Vienna in 1922, Meng studied architecture at the Technical University in Vienna under Friedrich Lehmann during and after the second World War. He worked from 1952 as a freelance architect, but was also a teacher, writer and institute director. From 1972 to 1983 he was President of the Austrian Institute for Design. In the 1980s he was commissioned with the establishment of the treasury chamber in the Vienna Hofburg and the renovation of the Palais Lobkowitz in the Austrian Theatre Museum.
Parking penalty: Tim Wiese throws money at traffic warden Ex-footballer Tim Wiese attracts the wrong sort of attention in Bremen He was once a footballer but now Tim Wiese, ex-national goalie for Germany who also played for Bremen and Hoffenheim, is a wrestler. According to him he wanted to put on 30 kg of muscle mass in the past two years. On the other hand he hasn't put on any intellectual weight. Wiese was just having his hair cut in the centre of Bremen when outside he saw a traffic warden putting a penalty notice on his white Chevrolet Camaro. Wiese stormed out of the hairdressers, abused the officer and threw down the money for the fine at her feet, according to a report in the "Bild" newspaper. The accusation has been confirmed by the town of Bremen but it is not yet known what the consequences of this extraordinary incident will be. "The matter is still being investigated," says a spokesperson for the town of Bremen. Only after that will it be decided whether charges are going to be pressed against Wiese.
Authorities in Panama destroy 4500 marijuana plants. The fertile ground and the rainforest climate of Isla del Rey are ideal for growing marijuana plants. Three days ago the authorities in Panama tore out the 4,500 plants and burnt them.
Men set upon 17-year-old Afgan Police are seeking witnesses to an incident in Bad Soden-Salmünster. At about 11.45 on Friday evening, three young men were walking from Bad Soden in the direction of Salmünster. According to police one of the group, a 17-year-old Afghan, was walking about five metres behind his friends and called out to them for them to wait for him. At this point the group were level with the bft petrol station. Three people were standing on the petrol station premises. One of these men shouted at the youth and hit him in the face with his fist. This broke the victim's nose and his nose bled heavily. One of his two friends ran to him and begged the attacker to let the victim go. The injured young man was taken home by his friends. The perpetrator followed the group to their home in a car and drove past it several times in an ostentatious manner. As soon as they could no longer see the car, the injured man went outside the building to smoke a cigarette. There he was attacked again by his original attacker and another male. Using a club, they beat the victim in the face and upper leg. The injured man had to be taken to hospital for medical care. Up to now there is only a vague description of the perpetrators. One was a man of about 5ft 11in tall. The second attacker was about 5ft 5in tall and was dressed in jeans and a brown and white shirt. Police are asking any possible witnesses to contact them by telephone on 0049 6181 100 123.
Dr Frank Müller takes over Felstehausen practice and invests €310,000 Sylvia Müller-Gongoll and Frank Müller (from left) take over practice from Karl-Heinrich and Ursel Felstehausen. The mayor of the joint community, Bernd Bormann, business sponsor Uta Seim-Schwartz and Asendorf's mayor Heinfried Kabbert are delighted at this turn of events. Many areas in the country have no doctor - Asendorf by contrast is fortunate: on 1 October Dr Frank Müller is taking over the Felstehausen practice. While Ursel Felstehausen is retiring, her husband Karl-Heinrich will spend the next few months working part-time with his successor. Dr Müller reopens the practice on 12 October after a period of renovation; by then he will have invested €310,000 in the premises at St.-Marcellusstrasse 6. When the Felstehausens met Frank Müller and his wife Dr Silvia Müller-Gongoll, who at the time were finishing their residencies in Verden hospital and also wanted to take on a practice in the next few years, they liked each other immediately "It was always in the back of our minds that the Müllers would fit into this practice well," says Dr Ursel Felstehausen and laughs. "When we were ready, I simply called them up." The Müller couple liked the idea of running their own practice in Asendorf in the future. "The proximity and the continuous contact with the patients are attractive to us," says 39-year-old Müller. "We want to get to know the families and support them over the years." He also sees being his own boss as a benefit. And so it was agreed that the Müllers would buy the house with the practice. However in the meantime they are living in Bruchhausen-Vilsen. Father of two Frank Müller also grew up there and after his medical studies in Hanover he worked in a number of medical practices as well as in hospitals in Sulingen, Nienburg und Rotenburg. He is currently working as a consultant in Sulingen, furthermore he was appointed chief emergency doctor in the county of Diepholz in 2009 and was involved on a voluntary basis in the blood donation service in Bruchhausen-Vilsen. From 19 September the practice will be preparing for the new boss. While surgeon Dr Karl-Heinrich Felstehausen worked as a general practitioner, his wife Ursel (a specialist in internal medicine) specialised in gastroenterology. The Müllers, both specialists in internal medicine, wanted to establish themselves as general practitioners. "So it's out with the endoscopy," says 38-year-old Sylvia Müller-Gongoll. After the conversion the rooms will look more modern. We will offer more ultrasound examinations as well as long-term and stress EKGs and we need one more consulting room. The IT system will also be completely renewed. The Müllers are receiving a grant totalling €50,000 as part of a funding programme from the county (€2,500) as well as from the joint community (€12,500) and the local authority (€12,500). "This shows how proud and happy we are that the practice will carry on," stressed the mayor of the joint community Bernd Bormann. According to Sylvia Müller-Gongoll, some 2,000 patients visit the Felstehausen practice every quarter; in north Germany the average practice sees about 500. There is another GP practice in Asendorf. Frank Müller says that there is another side benefit of their taking over the practice: according to Ursel Felstehausen, the chemist will stay in Asendorf. If they hadn't found any successor, it would have closed down. Anyone visiting the Müllers' surgery will also first of all see familiar faces: they are taking over the seven medical assistants and the cleaner from the Felstehausens. With their leaving, an era ends in Asendorf; after all the doctors have had their practice there for 30 years. "We started with only two rooms," remembers Ursel Felstehausen with a grin. After such a long time she feels a little wistful. "But we'll still be living in Hohenmoor and I'm sure we will be seeing many of our patients often," says the internal medicine specialist. Her husband adds with a smile, "We've got a 6000 m² garden." "Up to now I haven't done much gardening, that might change now." The couple also have two grandchildren and enjoy travelling.
Croatia: "We are letting the refugees through" "Border control is being brought in now on our southern border too," says Interior Minister Johanna Mikl-Leitner. In parallel, checks on the Hungarian border remain in place. It is still a priority that anyone wanting to claim asylum can "of course" do so. The care and safety of people is paramount. It is equally clear "that obvious signals are needed," says the minister. People must know that we do not accept an unlimited flow of migration, and not over the Austrian-Slovenian border either. A controlled procedure is required Croatia is considering a "corridor" - Slovenia has refused. The Croatian government had earlier announced that Slovenia also wanted to let incoming refugees travel through towards Austria and Germany, and also potentially establish corridors for the refugees. However, Interior Minister Vesna Györkös Znidar in Laibach did not see it in quite the same light. The idea of corridors is "absolutely unacceptable," Sloveina intends rather to step up its surveillance of the borders - especially the border to Hungary. The border with Croatia, as the external border to the Schengen area, is however already heavily controlled. But as the Minister stressed, Slovenia is not suggesting sealing its borders for refugees. "Every member of the EU has to fulfill its obligations, otherwise the system cannot work," stressed Györkös Znidar. According to the Croatian government, the first refugees attempted to enter Eastern Croatia on Monday night over the Tovarnik/Sid border crossing, in order to avoid registration. The Croatian police were able to pick them up in the nearby maize field. Since then, according to local media, police vehicles are constantly coming across new refugees in Croatian Tavarnik. They are mostly Syrian and Afghans, among them many women and children. The emergency sevices and the Red Cross are also already in place. Interior Minister Ranko Ostojic says that his country is expecting around 4000 refugees in the next few days. In addition it was reported by both Croatian and Serbian media on Wednesday that buses from Presevo on the Macedonian-Serbian border, which have up to now taken migrants to the Hungarian border, are being diverted to Croatia The government in Belgrade denied, however, that it is the case that they are giving people instructions to take certain routes. "We neither can nor want to do that," they stated. According to media reports, at least one bus with around 50 refugees arrived in the Serbian border town of Sid in the early hours, and in the course of the day more buses are expected. Over Croatia, Slovenia and Austria to Germany The detainees were travelling the entire night through Serbia from the Macedonian border, about 500 kilometres away. "We heard that Hungary is closed, so the police said we should come here," said one of the refugees. They wanted to go through Croatia, Slowenia and Austria to get to Germany. This implies that a shift in the former Balkan route through Turkey, Greece, Macedonia, Serbia and Hungary to a route somewhat further to the west, which observers have already predicted, could actually now be happening. Croatia: "Widespread options for border control" Croatian Interior Minister Ostojic had previously stressed that his country has already prepared appropriate plans for potential exceptional situations in the event of a large influx of refugees. He gave no details, but he indicated that Croatia, as a non-member of the Schengen Treaty, has "widespread options for border control." Rigorous checks are carried out in order to qualify for membership in the Schegen area. Slovenia has been a member since 2007, since when its EU partners have presented a consistently good report on the country as far as border controls are concerned. There are also some 300 refugees stuck on the Serbian side behind the Hungarian border fence. According to media reports from Belgrade, they spent the past night at the Horgos border crossing, which leads to Röszke. The Hungarian authorities claim that both the Horgos and the Backi Breg border crossings also remain completely closed. Whether the remaining refugees now want to travel on to the Croatian border is still not clear. At a local appearance on Wednesday morning, the Serbian Interior Minister, Nebojsa Stefanovic, tried to reassure people: he considers the debate on the refugees' alternative routes after the closure of the Hungarian border to be premature. At the moment there is not a large number of refugees involved. It is not yet possible to say whether they will continue their journey over Hungary, Croatia or another country. Aid workers advise migrants to take - dangerous - alternative routes. But private Hungarian aid workers have already started to distribute maps marked with alternative routes through Croatia to refugees The border crossing between Serbia and Croatia is however not without danger: in parts of the border region, even 20 years after the end of the Croatian war, there are still uncleared minefields. On Wednesday afternoon the Croatian police announced that a team of minesweepers has been sent to the border region.
Stock exchange hacker: Ukrainians pay $30 million Supranonok belonged to a ring of cyber criminals who since 2010 have repeatedly been accused of providing inside views of as yet unpublished financial reports and press releases on websites such as Business Wire, Marketwired and PR Newswire. The information provided enabled insider dealing on the financial markets. By this means, according to investigators, a total of over $100 million was scammed. "Current information indicates that even those outside our national borders have finally been caught," an SEC report states. Proceedings against 32 other suspects in this case are continuing. Most of the accused come from the Ukraine and Georgia. The perpetrators were operating out of both the USA and Eastern Europe.
Ecumenical Hospice Care celebrates 20 years in Mannheim Business rules around the Paradeplatz in Mannheim People carry out their errands, some of them walking briskly, some of them strolling along in a leisurely fashion. They head for the two branches of the Mannheim car showroom. Trams stop. Pulsing, vibrant life in the brilliant autumn sunshine, and right in the middle are four big blackboards each bearing the words, "Before I die I want to..." The Ecumenical Hospice Care organisation is carrying out this campaign to raise awareness of their 20th anniversary, and is encountering extremely mixed reactions. "It's about life, which is why we are carrying out this campaign in the middle of the town, right among the people," says Josefine Lammer. The head of Ecumenical Hospice Care is also available to answer questions from and have discussions with passers-by, as are voluntary workers. While many passers-by impulsively grab the chalk and complete the sentence with "affirm my life," "be able to read," "drive through the USA in a camper van," "stop war" or "not suffer for long," others stop briefly, read, say things like "I'm not ready for that yet," and carry on. Again and again little discussions develop in corners about the campaign itself, about life, about dealing with dying. Peter Hübinger is also there now. "It's only when I consider that some day the end of this world is going to come for me that I can live responsibly," says the Director of the Protestant social charity Diakonischen Werk in Mannheim, which is a responsible body along with the Caritas Association for Ecumenical Hospice Care. Which is why these high visibility campaigns are good for the 20-year-old organisation. Of course it's understandable that not everyone wants to share their message publicly on the blackboards; in the end it's a very personal matter. The topics of life and death are still steeped in taboos, according to Josefine Lammer's experience, although the hospice movement even over the last few years has done much to help people to accept it. A perception shared by Angelika Godefroid. The volunteer worker, who helps people to deal with death and grief, has been with the organisation from the start. Having been confronted with personal experiences of these issues she read a lot of literature and decided she wanted to get involved in helping people who are dying. When the Ecumenical Hospice Care organisation appealed for volunteer helpers, she signed up immediately and was with them when they started up in 1995. Godefroid belongs to a team of 45 volunteers - 43 women and two men - who help those people affected and their relatives in private households, hospitals, care homes and in the Sankt Vincent Hospice. They are all carefully trained. Angelika Godefroid is particularly well suited to handling this job and the experiences and everything it entails. "I see life from a different point of view, I believe it is precious and I seize the moment," she says. The outpatient services offered by the Ecumenical Hospice organisation are free of charge and denominationally independent. Financial support from health insurance companies and donations by members enable education as well as training sessions, and training and supervision for palliative care providers and grief counsellors. Training for new staff is offered every two years. The blackboards, with the messages written on them on Saturday, are now on display in the Evangelical church (M1, 1a) and the Catholic church (F2, 6). Anyone who wants to can also write their own personal wishes on postcards there.
Hoyerswerda: a bit of help for refugees These days more and more refugees are arriving in Germany. To prepare a warm welcome for them is not just a matter of the commitment of countless voluntary helpers. In Hoyerswerda there is also a whole range of people who unselfishly support asylum seekers in the town. Among these are Petra und Klaus Heine. Petra Heine is a dedicated teacher. Even at 74 she still loves teaching. Every Thursday she goes to the refugee centre on Dillinger Strasse. There she helps refugees from Syria, Kurdistan, Kosovo and Pakistan to learn the German language. Of course these lessons are very different from those at a proper school.
Exceptions for the new Bernried sports hall Bernried district council has approved the planning application for the €2.3 million sports hall. And it is making an exception. The roof may be flatter to accommodate a solar energy system. Planning for the long-awaited sports building on the Bernried sports ground are moving ahead step by step: in the latest council meeting the planning application was approved unanimously without any great discussion. The committee had earlier agreed, among other things, to an "exception," or rather an "exemption" under building law to the applicable building plan. The "exception" refers to permission for a special shape for the roof structure. According to this a "gable roof with an off-centre ridge and roof overhang" will be constructed. The background for the plan is the planned use of the roof surface for solar panels. "This means we will have a wonderfully large south-facing roof," explained mayor Josef Steigenberger at the meeting. The "exemption" on the other hand refers to the roof pitch, which for energy reasons - contrary to the stipulations in the development plan - will be less than 10 degrees. This will reduce the volume of the hall. Therefore an "exemption" is necessary, since the development plan allows no "exceptions" with regard to roof pitch - while the Bernried council as a rule has a more restrictive approach to requests for exemptions. The sports hall is however more of a recurring project. "We are not setting a precedent with this," says Steigenberger. The hall at the sports centre is a joint project between the district and SV Bernried. Costs have been calculated at around €2.3 million. Contributions are expected through funding from schools and popular sports. In the next step of the project, the planning application for the 18 x 36 metre hall will be presented to the district administration for review.
Peissenberg Clinic moves to Schongau. The Peissenberg Hospital is closing earlier than planned - in 2016. At the same time Dr Wilhelm Fischer (66) will become the new medical director at the Schongau Hospital. The wards and the majority of employees are moving to Schongau from Peissenberg. This allows for the district's limited company hospital's surprising plans, confirms district administrator Andrea Jochner-Weiss. The Board of Directors, however, will come to a decision about this and they meet next Wednesday, 23 September. If these plans are implemented, then all the nearly 50 employees at the hospital in Peissenberg will remain in employment. The vast majority will move with Fischer and the internal medicine ward that still continues to exist to Schongau. The premises are available. Those employees who are not able to go to Schongau will be offered positions in Weilheim, according to Jochner-Weiss. Employees have been informed about the plans. The changes were triggered by the resignation of Dr Andreas Eder, who has been clinical director of the Schongau clinic since the beginning of the year and is now moving to a private practice in the immediate vicinity of the hospital. When the question of who his successor should be, according to Jochner-Weiss, the name of "Fischer," who had declared that he was prepared to take over leadership from 1 October and move with his team to Schongau, was raised. For the Schongau hospital, these changes mean an "upgrade" and an expansion of the services offered in the field of internal medicine, says Jochner-Weiss. Fisher is a specialist in cardiac pacemakers and defibrillators. Schongau (180 beds) specialises in gastroenterological disorders in its internal medicine department. In the transitionary period over the next two years Fischer and his team, if the Board of Management agrees to this, will run both establishments, and in the next year the former miners' hospital in Peissenberg, which still has over 35 beds, will finally be closed after almost 140 years. Thus far the district has planned this for 2018, when the currently ongoing restoration of the Weilheim hospital is finished. District administrator Jochner-Weiss, who is also Chairman of the Board of Management, contradicts rumours that the building, which is owned by the Federal Association for Miners, will in the future be used as accommodation for asylum seekers. "I can rule that out." What will happen to the building, Jochner-Weiss cannot say; that needs more consideration. At the moment a Caritas short-term care facility and a daytime psychiatric facility are housed there. "It's the best thing that could have happened for us; we won't get this sort of opportunity again," says Fischer about the move to the Lech, which has been accepted "positively and with understanding" by employees. Real prospects for the building where Fischer has worked for over 30 years as chief physician do not really exist. He was asked by his colleagues at Schongau to take over the post of medical director. The Piessenberg hospital, which once had 100 beds, has been constantly under threat of closure over the last decades. Departments have been closed, for example surgery and obstetrics.
The handballers of Rhein-Neckar Löwen are being challenged this evening (8:15 p.m.) at Bergischer HC. The leaders of the Bundesliga are the clear favourites in Wuppertal, however there are no grounds for arrogance. In the past season the Baden team suffered a painful defeat at BHC and they have some ground to make up there.
Two injured in hunting accident near Pratau Two tractor drivers were seriously injured when they were shot during the maize harvest on Tuesday afternooon. A number of huntsmen were in action on a corn field near Pratau (Wittenburg district) during the harvest, according to police. After shots were fired, two men, one 63 and the other 22, suffered severe injuries and were taken to hospital. The precise cause of the accident was initially unclear. Criminal investigators are trying to determine the details.
Missing 16-year-old from Rhineland-Palatine the victim of violent crime A suspect has led the police to the body of a 16-year-old from Rhineland-Palatine who has been missing since Saturday. When questioned the 20-year-old admitted to having killed the teenager and thrown her body into a canal in Rockenhausen. Sixteen-year-old missing from Rhineland-Palatine since Saturday is the victim of a violent crime. The body of a young woman was found on Tuesday evening in Rockenhausen near Kaiserslautern the public prosecutor's office and police reported on Wednesday. A 20-year-old suspect, who confessed to the crime and led investigators to the site where the body was found, was arrested also on Tuesday evening. The 16-year-old was reported as missing Sunday morning when she did not return home as agreed after attending an autumn party in Rockenhausen. In their search for the young woman, investigators initially found personal items belonging to the victim. Interviews with the missing girl's circle of friends and acquaintances ultimately resulted in 20-year-old becoming a suspect. The presumed perpetrator then led the police to a canal in Rockenhausen, where the body was found. Under interrogation the arrested man confessed the police that he had killed the 16-year-old and thrown her body in the canal. The 20-year-old will be brought before the magistrate on Wednesday; investigators have reduced the charge to one of manslaughter. Further investigation is being carried out regarding details of the exact circumstances of the crime
Refugees need accommodation: study warns of housing gap The situation in the German housing market is tense And more and more refugees are seeking an affordable place to stay. Pressure on the housing market is growing. Social housing is facing a challenge. The struggle for allocations in the German housing market began long ago. With the arrival of refugees and job seekers from the EU, more and more people are crowding into a market which in many large towns is already overburdened. They are competing with residents on low incomes for the last affordable homes. To supply the demand for affordable homes, 400,000 new units must be built every year up to 2020. This is the conclusion reached by a study commissioned by the "Social Housing" federation of associations. In comparison, 260,000 units were completed in this year in Germany. This amounts to a shortfall of 140,000 homes. After the first three months of their stay, refugees are no longer obliged to live as asylum seekers in initial reception accommodation. Many then push onto the housing market and stand in long queues in front of rental flats. According to the German Federal Statistical Office, however, in the last year fewer than half of all asylum seekers have lived as tenants. The negative development in the housing market, however, is not just due to the increasing numbers of refugees. The study points to significant failings in housing policy over the last year. Germany has a housing deficit which increases every year. There is a current shortfall in urban areas of around 770,000 living units laments Matthias Günther, author of the study. This is why many professionals in large towns are forced to live in flat shares. Due to the slump in the housing market, young adults of necessity live longer in "Hotel Mama." In large towns over the last few years, the number of square metres per head has decreased for the first time. In order to solve the problem, the "Social Housing" alliance suggests a fresh start. New incentives should revive social housing. For example land transfer tax could be waived and the land tax for sponsored housing temporarily suspended. In addition, according to the association, attractive tax depreciation possibilities are necessary. The KfW state bank's refugee funding programme has already been well received in towns and local authorities. On Monday evening, a good week after start of the programme, €184 million - more than half of the around €300 million which had been made available - had already been requested. The project may now even be stepped up.
Refugees have safe conduct: Croatia and Slovenia put corridor in place Since Hungary has virtually stopped letting them through, the choice of more and more refugees is the route over Croatia. Zagreb has announced that they will allow passage over Slovenia towards the north without obstacles. However the route is dangerous. Croatia wants to come to an agreement with neighbouring Slovenia about the establishment of a corridor for refugees. "I have spoken to the Slovenian Minister for the Interior, and if necessary we will organise a corridor," said Croatian Minister for the Interior Ranko Ostojic. Slovenia lies between Croatia and Austria and already belongs to the Schengen zone. EU member Croatia is not yet a Schengen country. After the sealing off of the Serbian Hungarian border, hundreds of refugees set out for Croatia in order to reach West Europe from there. Five hundred people came over the border at Tovarnik, reports Croatian television station RTL. Hungary had cordoned off its borders for refugees the previous day. Moreover, new laws which came into force on the same day make fair asylum proceedings in Hungary practically redundant. Croatia wants to let the refugees pass through. The Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic explains, "They may pass through and we are preparing ourselves for this possibility." These people are there, they are women children and men who want to live and to achieve something. They are however people who do not want to live in Croatia. The Croatian police picked up the first refugees on the Serbian border to EU neighbour Croatia in the morning. According to media reports most come from Syria, Iran and Afghanistan. They arrived at the Serbian border town of Sid both by bus and in taxis. Immediately after their arrival they tried to reach the green border to Croatia on foot. At the Croatian-Serbian border the refugees did not come across border fences. The border strips hold other dangers: there are still active mines there from the Yugoslavian civil war in the 90s. It is now planned for minesweepers to quickly create a safe passage. Meanwhile after the closure of the border hardly any more refugees come to Hungary. On Tuesday police counted 366 people that they had picked up. Shortly before the closing of the gate on Monday the number was 9,380. The new Hungarian laws classify climbing and damaging the border fences as criminal offences. This has led to 35 criminal proceedings being initiated in the South Hungarian border town of Szeged. Those convicted are threatened with sentences of up to five years and extradition from the country. According to the immigration authorities, a total of 94 asylum applications was accepted in the new "transition zone" set up at the border, almost all - 93 - at the biggest crossing at Röszke. Among the applicants were 13 families with small children and two older people. On Wednesday morning another 40 refugees were stopped there. In practice, however, nobody else has a chance of being granted asylum in Hungary. According to opinion in Hungary, Serbia is "a safe third country." The rejected asylum seekers will be deported there. Only a few hundred refugees now are gathering by "the transition zone" in Röszke. Workers have begun to clean up in Röszke. They are collecting the rubbish that tens of thousands of people have left lying at the sides of the roads over the last weeks. Crowd barriers are being dismantled and one of the reception centres in the border town is being rebuilt. No one wants to talk about the goal of this rebuilding. After the closure of the border between Serbia and Hungary, Austria is getting only a few refugees. Furthermore the country has strengthened its border controls. According to the goverment, around 20,000 migrants are still in the country. In Salzburg, some 1,400 people are waiting to travel on to Germany. The train service from there to Germany was stopped in the morning on the instructions of the German authorities. In Freilassing one regularly meets small groups of refugees on foot.
Mayor drives "stranded people" over the border "We were busy cleaning up after the Bridge Festival on Sunday, when suddenly there were ten people standing at the entrance to the tent with suitcases," says Mayor of Wernstein Alois Stadler. Tourists who wanted to get to Passau by train. Because Germany had unexpectedly stopped train services to Austria on Sunday due to the influx of refugees, their journey had come to a halt in Wernstein," says Stadler, who immediately offered his help and together with two other helpers and their cars chauffeured the stranded people over the border to Passau. Before that we entertained our surprise guests with snacks and drinks. We said at once that we would take them to Passau by car. "It was a matter of course for us," says Stadler, talking to OÖN. They were very grateful. One man insisted on handing over a generous donation - €100 for the fire brigade. "We were very pleased about that," says Stadler. The stranded train passengers had changed trains in Wels on Sunday evening from an ICE train to a regional train to Passau after the surprise announcement that train services to Germany had been suspended, in an attempt to cross the border anyway. But the regional train was stopped before the border in Wernstein am Inn. In Wernstein, excursions over the border are generally very popular. The Bridge Festival is a joint effort between Wernstein and Bavarians from Neukirchen; the Bridge Festival Association organises the social event on Sunday and an athletic two bridge walk the day before with their Bavarian neighbours.
The fact that Viktor Orbán is sending us tens of thousands more is a logical result of his hypocritical policies: Instead of providing immediate help to the Röszke camp by constructing structures which ensure a level of humanity, our Chancellor has officially and publicly moved the Hungarian government's stance closer to an atmosphere of national socialism. It is not only those Austrians who are now confronted with chaotic conditions in the border areas who are victims of the policy. Those who have fled, too, must notice that the "promised land" which had invited and welcomed them is not considered another refugee camp. It will be a huge challenge, in the light of the continuing flow of refugees and the approaching winter, to create humane conditions for asylum seekers. There is a still greater one - maintaining peace, security and stability in Austria.
Konrad is looking for winter-proof accommodation for 35,000 Konrad has his hands full with the hosting of refugees. Christian Konrad is used to the fact that his word carries weight. The government has engaged the former powerful Raiffeisen banker to establish accommodation for thousands of refugees. Konrad has already got to grips with the chaos in the Traiskirchen reception centre. "We no longer have any homeless people in Traiskirchen," he reported on his first achievement. And the accommodation of the 20,000 refugees who arrived in Austria on Monday happened without any great fuss, said Konrad, praising the organisational "masterpiece." The Minister of the Interior, however, talked of a "critical situation." In total, Konrad estimates that accommodation for 85,000 will be required in the current year. In order to meet this figure, accommodation for another 35,000 must be found in the next weeks - 20,000 to be provided for by the states and 15,000 by the federal government. If there are more refugees, we can manage. "But it is not a bottomless pit," says Konrad. He has already carried out talks with the State Governors. They have assured him that accommodation will also be found for the next refugees to arrive. "It is going well in Austria," says Ferry Maier. The former VP mandatary is assisting Konrad. Tomorrow there will be a meeting with Cardinal Christoph Schönborn, in which it will be confirmed how the Church will help. The asylum coordinator has also got high expectations of the ORF "Help the way we are" campaign. Private individuals can offer simple accommodation over this platform. It is also hoped that this will include hotels, which are often empty in winter. Konrad and Maier yesterday critisised the specifications for accommodation as "too high." In times of need it should not be necessary for those providing accommodation to have to comply with certain heights for towel rails or sizes of skylights. "Emergency standards" should apply for a limited period. Konrad uses his experience as justification for why he, in contrast to the Ministry for the Interior, should be successful with the accommodation. I am an older man, and nobody readily tells untruths to my face His most important weapon is the power of persuasion. Konrad and Maier are not costing the Republic anything, as they themselves explain. The want to raise the number of their staff from three to four. Their own search for accommodation has not yet been successful. Konrad wanted to set up a container on Stephansplatz as an office. But apparently there are problems with obtaining approval. Linz demanding a better allocation For the time being the city of Linz is not planning to open new sports halls and other buildings such as the Tips Arena or the Design Centre as accommodation for refugees. At the moment this should not be necesssary, as the people in question can currently be accommodated without these measures, says Mayor Klaus Luger (SP). But in case of emergency further locations need to be checked for their suitability. The town chief is criticising the allocation of refugees within the federal states. Other districts should also make their own contributions.
Seehofer: "Borders will not be cordoned off" In a long telephone call with Bavarian Prime Minister Horst Seehofer (CSU), State Governor Josef Pühringer (VP) on Monday agreed to further action on the issue of refugees. Seehofer has assured me that the German borders will not be cordoned off. The onward journey of refugees into the Federal Republic continues to be possible. However appropriate border controls do now exist. There will now no longer be any special trains with refugees travelling to Germany. Those seeking protection will however be brought to Germany with regular trains. Pühringer once more called for increased solidarity in the refugee issue from the other EU member states. The fact that Austria is also now reintroducing controls at its borders is for Pühringer "a logical consequence" of Germany's approach.
The next Runtastic is only a matter of time The general renovation of the "Neuen Werft" in the Lintz industrial area is officially finished. The publicly listed IT group S&T has moved into four of the six floors of the office and manufacturing building. It is planned that the rest (2700 m²) will be rented to young, innovative businesses in the technology sector. "In IT clever heads are our raw material - and we must try to get them to work for us," says S&T boss Hannes Niederhauser. He can imagine investing in start-up businesses in Neuen Werft, and also later acquiring these. S&T wants to collaborate with the new neighbours from the start - and Niederhauser promises: "The next Runtastic is only a matter of time." SMT is investing €1.7 million in the location and €3.3 million is coming from Techcentre, a third of which belongs to each of the town of Lintz, the state of Upper Austria and the federal government (FFG). The building is leased by Linz AG to S&T and Techcentre for 60 years. Thirty percent of the remaining 2700 m² in the building is already rented out and there have been enquiries about the other 40 percent.
Owner of Lia Peroni opens second business in the arcade. In the new shop the focus is on Furla handbags. Jutta Breit actually wanted to get a dog. The 49-year-old proprietor of Lia Peroni in the Taubenmarkt arcade had to unceremoniously postpone this plan: now she has finally expanded by taking on new premises In the Furla shop opposite the business where she sells among other things bags, cases, shoes and garments from different manufacturers, everything now revolves around Furla women's handbags; purses can be obtained starting at €75. Larger bags and accessories cost up to €500. The new shop opened yesterday. It has been converted over the last few weeks. "I have been considering for a long time whether I should open another shop," says Breit. Crucial for this decision was among other things that the Furla manufacturers, who are based in Bologna, were impressed with the idea of their own location where only their handbags are sold. "We are the only people in the greater Lintz area who sell this brand," said the mother of two daughters, who herself has Italian roots. Breit got her interest in fashion from her mother, when she was still in the cradle. It suits me best if something emerges and I can show new trends at affordable prices. The expert can with absolute certainty give me the answer to the question of why so many women go into raptures at the sight of a beautiful handbag. Perhaps it's because a beautiful handbag can enhance any outfit.
The braggart from Kallstadt The Palatine ancestors of Donald Trump came from a place whose inhabitants are known as braggarts. This characteristic also connects many with the billionaire who wants to become US president. Donald Trump (69) is always the source of controversy. Whether he is expressing xenophobic opinions, being rude to journalists or revealing gaps in knowledge on crisis politics, the US presidential candidate creates a stir in the election campaign. And comes out of it well. This is also something that happens in the Palatine town of Kallstadt, from where the property billionaire's grandparents originate. The New Yorker with the blow-dry hairstyle is a concept to many in the winemaking village on the wine route. Many in the village of 1,200 inhabitants are related to him. His grandfather came from Kallstadt in the Palatine: Donald Trump, here in election campaign mode. Simone Wendel, a resident of Kallstadt, has made a film about Trump. And what do the inhabitants of the village think about his ambition to become the most powerful man in the world? "I think they find it rather exciting, but also in the way of Kallstadt people they are not deeply impressed. The native of Kallstadt has made an amusing documentary film about the place and its famous offshoots, included in whom besides Trump are also the Heinz ketchup family. Trump, who is not known for his modesty, also gets a chance to speak in "Kings of Kallstadt" (2014) - with a statement that he would have been successful anyway, even had he lived in Kallstadt. He has not won over the people there. There is indeed a certain respect for his family's achievements, but there also tends to be a view that Trump "is a bit of a bigmouth," says Wendel. Coincidentally, Kallstadt's nickname in the region is, "Die Brulljesmacher," a dialect term which translates as "The Braggart," she says. Trump comes from the village of the braggarts. The story of the Trumps' success began in 1885 when the man who would become Donald Trump's grandfather emigrated and opened a saloon for gold prospectors in the USA. The foundation stone for his property business was his first purchase of land in New York. But his grandparents' lives were not free of tragedy: their wish to return permanently to their home country collapsed in the Bavarian state to which the Palatine then belonged. They would not let Trump enter as he had originally left without authorisation, the Director of the Institute for Palatinate History and Cultural Anthropology, Roland Paul, explains at the beginning of the film. Trump is the grandson of "illegal emigrants." This is at odds with the sometimes pithy statements of his descendant. He has repeatedly spoken in derogatory terms about Mexican immigrants in the US, and demanded the building of a border wall in order to deter illegal immigrants. "The fuss he makes about it is not very nice," says Hans-Joachim Bender, a distant relative of Trump ("My grandmother was born a Trump, my grandfather was born a Heinz"). The retired winemaker sees the American as rather aloof, "he always has a short fuse." Does he think Trump will come? "I can't imagine it," says the 72-year-old. "He has never had any interest in Kallstadt." Guest house landlady Veronika Schramm, like many of Kallstadt's inhabitants, mentions that descendants of the Heinz family made a donation towards the church organ when they visited, which was very well received. "I can't imagine Donald doing that," says the 68-year-old. She would prefer it if he doesn't win the election as "he has such radical opinions, I don't know whether it would be a good thing." If anyone like him had been in charge in his grandfather's time, "he would never have gone there." "There are more interesting topics than him," says winemaker's daughter Sarah Bühler. And as president? "He's certainly not my president," she says. And, "the grapes will ripen without President Trump." Wendel's film, for which Trump gave a lengthy interview, has been seen by 12,000 cinema-goers, and interest is also growing in the USA.
The Upper Bavarian district of Ramsau bei Berchtesgaden is Germany's first "Mountaineers' Village." The village of 1,800 inhabitants in the Berchtesgaden National Park received the award for "Gentle Tourism" from the hand of the Vice President of the German Alpine Association, Ludwig Wucherpfenning, on Wednesday. There are already 20 "Mountaineers' Villages" in Austria. In our neighbouring country, the local Alpine Association is responsible for awarding the distinction. A "Mountaineers' Village" is permitted to have a maximum of 2,500 residents. At least one fifth of its area must be designated as a protected area.
Because of the large number of refugees, the Freie Wähler are calling for 1000 new teachers in Bavaria. At the start of the FW autumn conclave, party and faction leader Hubert Aiwanger issued a warning about a severe crisis in Bavaria's schools if there are not sufficient new teachers for the many new schoolchildren: "We need at least 1000 additional teachers to stop the schools from collapsing," said Aiwanger. "Otherwise we will have upheavals in the Bavarian education system." The Freie Wähler faction is in session in the Lower Franconian community until Friday. Very different main topics were originally planned. But the record number of refugees is dominating the Freie Wähler meeting too. "Of course the subject of asylum is the main issue at the conclave," says Aiwanger. Aiwanger is demanding the establishment of a UN safety zone in Syria, similar to the one during the Yugoslavian war in the nineties. "It can't go on like this, we have to get to the causes," says the Freie Wähler head. The Freie Wähler want to deport failed asylum seekers as quickly as possible. For this reason, Aiwanger also wants more personnel for the adminstrative courts, which are responsible for asylum cases: "We need at least 50 new asylum judges as well," says Aiwanger. The FW head criticised the lack of consistency between several federal states: "We need unified standards in the Federal states nationwide." "Bavaria deports; others don't." "We must be more efficient." However, regional politics in Grosswahlstadt should not be allowed to suffer. An issue that has been running for many years remains on the agenda: educational policy. In the new school year the Education Minister, Ludwig Spaenle (CDU), started a "middle school plus" pilot project, in which an extension of the middle level in grammars schools from three to four years is being tested - this will result in a return to taking nine years up to the university entry qualification exam. But that is not enough for Aiwanger. "The G9 issue must be speeded up," says the FW head. We demand freedom of choice for all grammar schools that want it. A free move to G9 everywhere it is wanted.
Stronger Wall Street gives Dax a helping hand After an over-long stretch of aimless and edgy trading, the German stock market has closed with gains. It was only in the afternoon that a stronger rally on the US stock market provided a clearer direction which ultimately lifted the Dax by 0.56 percent to 10,188.13 points. The value of MDax medium size companies gained 0.54 percent to 19,552.88 points. The technology-heavy TecDax rose by 1.03 percent to 1,736.69 points. The EuroStoxx 50, the benchmark index in the Eurozone, moved ahead by 1.01 percent to 3,207.60 points. The markets in London and Paris also registered solid gains. In the USA the Dow Jones index closed at about 1 percent up. Many brokers reckon that markets will remain static until after the interest rate decision in the USA and also the major maturity of the futures exchanges this Friday. Discussion about the impact due to the phasing out of nuclear energy has meanwhile pushed RWE stocks to an all time low and also left a significant mark on Eon. According to the "Spiegel," the German energy companies potentially lack €30 billion in reserves. The German Federal Government denied the figures quoted in the press. Stocks in the two largest German energy businesses have subsequently recovered somewhat, although ultimately RWE lost 3.31 percent and Eon 6.15 percent. Infineon shares climbed to the top of the Dax by a further 3.22 percent. In the view of one trader, a positive report by US investment magazine "Barron's" at the weekend continues to have an effect. According to him investors in the German chip manufacturer are currently paying too little attention Thus investment in the promising wafer technology and a focus on the automotive market should pay off. Car stocks were in demand: even in the traditionally week summer month of August, again more cars were sold than in the previous year period, as the manufacturers' association Acea disclosed at the start of the International Aotomobile Exhibition IAA in Frankfurt. Stocks for car manufacturers Daimler and BMW, Opel and Fiat gained by 1.34 percent and 2.21 percent respectively. Stocks on Volkswagen increased in price by 1.26 percent. On the German bond market, the current yield of listed Federal Government securities fell by 0.48 percent (on Friday 0.50 percent). The Rex bond index rose by 0.12 percent to 139.55 points. Government futures lost 0.71 percent, going down to 154.11 points. The rate of the Euro sank in the afternoon, ending at $1.1262. At around midday the European Central Bank had set the reference price at US $1.1305 (1.1268). This means that the dollar cost €0.8846 (0.8875).
Contruction area planned in the town The plot of land at the Alte Post youth centre in Emden is going to be built on again. The town is currently making preparations to market the 4000 square metre area. A mixture of trade, commerce and housing is planned - although there are no firm offers so far. Emden - The town of Emden wants to sell a plot of land of around 4000 square metres directly adjacent to the Alte Post youth centre. Preparations are currently underway. It is planned to use the land for a mixture of trade, commerce and housing. A spokesperson for the town states that it is awaiting suitable offers. The identities of possible investors are not yet clear. Consequently, no contract has yet been concluded. The town of Emden sold a part of the site, situated on the Ringstrasse/corner of Grosse Strasse a few months ago and the building which previously stood there was demolished.
Hieve project: facts are in the open Plans for the holiday home development at the Kleines Meer near Emden are taking shape. Investors have presented their plans for the project to the public. A number of residents are again concerned - they are worried about the sale of their leisure refuge. Plans have been negotiated, mulled over, debated, and plotted behind closed doors for months. Now the plans for a new holiday home development on the Kleines Meer near Emden are in the open. The interested party, the Emden company "System-Bau," presented their plans to the Emden Council development committee for the first time on Monday evening. Originally this point was scheduled as a part of the agenda not open to the public. Under pressure from critics of the project and from the FDP faction, who had accused investors and the administration of secretiveness, Ralf Behrends of the System-Bau management went on the offensive. "We don't yet have an answer for all the questions," he said in front of the council members and more than 50 spectators. But it is good to be able to counter all the rumours now. The €10 - 12 million project has been under discussion for months. Pictures and new details of the proposed hotel building provoked strong reactions among owners of properties at the lake who attended the meeting, Roberto Schulz, property owner and member of the board of the residents' lobby group, Pro Hieve, claims: "It's going to be a huge development which looms over all the other buildings." Furthermore, like a number of other critics of the project, he is afraid that traffic will increase enormously due to the proposed size of the facility. "We have to reckon with whole busloads arriving," said Schulz. However it is not yet clear what exactly is going to happen on the hectare sized area of the former restaurant. No operator has yet been identified. "First of all we have to present a coherent concept," says Ralf Behrends. Since this does not yet exist, construction plans are still subject to variation.
Twin gorillas born in Frankfurt Zoo Frankfurt Zoo is celebrating the birth of two gorillas. Twenty-six year old Dian brought twins into the world yesterday. Twin births are rare for gorillas. The last time it happened in a German zoo was almost 50 years ago in 1967, also in Frankfurt, according to the zoo. The sex of the new-born gorilla twins is not yet certain as so far mother Dian has kept a close hold on them. First reported in the "Bild."
Love story set in Hunsrück It is a theme being used increasingly in fiction nowadays: a young woman, plain and unpopular when she was at school, meets her teenage crush years later and he falls in love with her. This is what happens in the recently published novel "We're not really like that" by Luisa Binder. Beyond the love story itself, the novel may be of interest to every reader in Hunsrück as it is set in Langweiler and the surrounding location. The full-time author grew up in Langweiler and is happy to have been able to create a literary monument to her native area.
Villingen-Schwenningen: three vehicles damaged A 33-year-old driver received minor injuries in a collision on the cross-over between Nordring and Auf Herdenen. A 60-year-old lorry driver drove onto the cross-over in the direction of the industrial estate roundabout and realised too late that two vehicles in front had stopped at the roundabout. As a result he ran into the rear of an Audi and pushed this vehicle into the Ford Fiesta stopped in front of it. Damage amounting to around €10,000 was suffered by the vehicles involved, according to the police. The Audi belonging to the 33-year-old could no longer be driven and had to be towed away.
Drunks create a disturbance Since security personnel could not appease the situation, employees called the police. Officers were only able to take the troublemakers into custody after using pepper spray. A breath test showed that a 16-year-old had a blood alcohol level of 0.89. The teenager was picked up by his mother. A 28-year-old with a blood alcohol level of 2.15 was initially detained in custody.
Accident on the A5 near Karlsruhe: driver's cab torn apart A lorry driver was seriously injured in a collision between three lorries on the A5 motorway near Karlsruhe on Tuesday evening. Two of the three lorries involved had braked approaching long-term roadworks in the direction of Basel. The third driver noticed too late and tried unsuccessfully to swerve left at the last moment, according to police. The cab of the driver responsible for the accident was completely torn apart. The driver was taken to hospital with serious injuries. The A5 between Bruchsal and Karlsruhe North was completely closed for over six hours until 2 a.m. Damages amounted to €122,000.
Traffickers move towards Germany over minor border crossings. More and more refugees are being picked up away from major control points on the German-Austrian border. Due to fear of discovery and people being arrested, many traffickers are leaving through minor borders on the Austrian side, says a spokesperson for the Federal police. More than 1,000 refugees have been picked up along the border river of Inn in the districts of Passau and Rottal-Inn since Tuesday. They had arrived on foot over bridges and weirs on the German side. They are received there by Federal police and passed on for registration. According to reports from the Federal police, significantly more refugees arrived at the main railway station in Munich on Wednesday compared to the beginning of the week. By 8 a.m. about 700 people had arrived in the capital city of the state, said a spokesperson in the morning. Following the reintroduction of controls on the German-Austrian borders, 1,759 refugees reached the city on Tuesday.
Stuttgart: tail end of tropical storm "Henry" expected in the south west Meteorologists are warning of squalls in the south west from Wednesday evening onwards. Due to a depression over western Europe at the moment, warm sea air is flowing into the country, the German Meteorological service (DWD) has advised. The powerful trough is the tail end of tropical storm "Henry," which has moved over the Atlantic from the Bermuda Islands in the last few days. Violent storms and thunderstorms are anticipated, particularly in Baden. According to DWD, gusts of between 60 and 90 kilometres per hour can be anticipated on the Swabian Mountains and in Bodenseekreis. On Friday the sun is forecasted to put in a longer appearance once again
The chassis makes the difference: every two years car manufacturers present their new models at the IAA In 2015 movement can be noticed in particular in compact cars, which are selling especially well at the moment. Compact class cars are currently very much in demand: according to the Federal Office for Motor Transport (KBA) about 28.1 percent of new registrations in August alone belonged to this segment. This is also reflected at the IAA (public days 17 to 27 September). In among all the futuristic concept vehicles and the new high-end and luxury models, this year above all it is new compact models which are being introduced. One of the biggest premieres for the German car sector here is the Opel Astra, which hits the car dealerships in the autumn. "The Astra is an extremely important model for us," said Opel boss Karl-Thomas Neumann at the show. It is at the heart of the brand. To ensure that it sells well, the price of the new Astra is not increasing significantly. Opel proposes an entry point below that of its main competitor, the VW Golf, which starts at €17,650. The latest Astra costs from €16,990. With a new 1.4 litre engine, the Astra has an output of 74 kw/100 hp. The Hessian manufacturer also offers diesel and petrol engines from 70 kw/95 hp to 147 kw/200 hp, including the first three cylinder petrol model. Unlike its most important competitors, VW Golf and Ford Focus, for the first time the Opel Astra is only available as a five door. In spring the estate car, already seen at the IAA, will follow as the second option And what other compact cars are being introduced alongside the Astra at the IAA? Renault Mégane: Renault introduces the fourth generation of its competitor to the Astra, the Mégane, into the race. The Mégane can be seen at the show exclusively as a five-door, in a conventional and a distinctly sporty version. It will be available in dealerships at the beginning of next year, then also as an estate model. Infiniti: the Infiniti Q30 is brand new in this segment. The Nissan offshoot is looking to find its place in the rapidly growing segment with the new model. The compact Infiniti, with its curved lines, fits right into the design line of the brand. The basic model will have a petrol engine with a performance of at least 90 kw/122 hp. A diesel with 80 kw/109 hp or 125 kw/170 hp is also on offer. Suzuki Baleno: also new in the segment is the Suzuki Baleno, which celebrates its world premiere in Frankfurt. On offer is the petrol engine model, including a newly developed 1.0 litre turbo engine and a performance of 82 kw/111 hp. According to the manfacturer's specifications, the maximum torque is 170 Newton metres (Nm). The Baleno is launched in Europe in early 2016. DS4: not totally new, but completely redesigned, is the DS 4 compact car model, which can be seen at the IAA. The designers at the classy Citroën offshoot have turned their hand primarily to the front end: here the radiator grille has been newly designed and the modified headlights have been equipped with LED technology. In the interior the infotainment system in particular has been modernised, the number of buttons on the touch screen has been reduced and for the first time Apple's CarPlay has been incorporated. In the compact class the IAA also features a string of revised and new versions such as the updated Mercedes A Class or the Peugeot 308.
JVA Berlin Tegel: five-square-metre cells are unfit for human beings The Federal Constitutional Court has upheld a complaint by a former inmate of Tegel prison that he had been housed for months in too small a cell. In principle, prisoners have a right to financial compensation for violation to their human dignity if they are kept in cells which are too small. The Federal Constitutional Court reached this decision in a public ruling on Wednesday. According to the judge, those affected can actually hope for money if they have been shut in too small a room for only a few days (ref: 1 BvR 1127/14). For this reason a former prisoner was successful with his constitutional complaint in Karlsruhe. He was detained in Berlin Tegel prison between June and November 2009 in a single cell with a floor area of around five square metres: the toilet was not in a separate room. Afterwards the man, who according to a statement by his lawyer has since been released, was transferred to a larger cell. His liability claim against the state of Berlin by reason of unsuitable prison conditions however, failed. But the constitutional judges set aside the judgement of the Supreme Court in Berlin and resubmitted the case there for renewed assessment. In their view the human dignity of the man had been violated. The Supreme Court is now deciding the amount of the damages. Even if for legal reasons only a few days of the period in custody are significant for compensation, entitlement to a claim for compensation exists. Otherwise there would be "fears of deterioration of a person's right to protection." The Supreme Court must now settle the amount of pecuniary compensation. Constitutional judges have often strengthened the rights of prisoners in the past. As recently as April they awarded damages to a prisoner because he had been locked in his cell naked. A cell with multiple functions and without a separate toilet is also inhumane, according to a decision from 2011. Furthermore Karlsruhe confirmed on Wednesday that in addition, according to the Berlin Constitutional Court, a prisoner in a parallel case in November 2009 had attested to inhumane accommodation The prisoner at that time was kept in a similar cell to that in the Karlsruhe case daily between 3 p.m. and 9 p.m. for over three months Berlin prisons have also hit the headlines in the last few weeks due to lack of staff. Because of this, prisoners are time and again locked up for 23 hours, aggressiveness rises and it has even led to brawls due to the tense situation. According to information from the press office of the public prosecutor, 21 positions in Tegel have not been filled due to a lack of young people, and 19 will cease to exist in 2016.
Angela Merkel and the refugee policy: "We can handle it" The influx of refugees is an enormous challenge - the German Chancellor is determined to accept it. What changes will we see in Germany? According to the predictions of the Federal Minister of the Interior, around 800,000 asylum seekers will arrive in Germany this year, and according to a statement by Vice Chancellor Sigmar Gabriel (SPD), Germany is actually in a position to take in a million refugees. German Chancellor Angela Merkel (CDU) has demonstrated determination in the face of this unusual challenge. "I say again and again: we can handle it, and we will handle it." The following is a summary of what is coming to Germany. According to various forecasts between 350,000 (estimation by the Ministry of buildings) and 400,000 (estimation by the Pestel Institute) homes will be needed annually - and in fact for the next five years. That is twice as many as are being built at the moment (250,000 homes). The lack of living space is dramatic but above all for affordable rental properties: between 60,000 and 80,000 social dwellings per year are excluded from rent control and refugees will also compete for these particularly cheap homes. Federal building minister Barbara Hendricks (SPD) thus wants to double funding from the current €518 million to €1 billion. In the view of the Pestel Institute this is far too little: 80,000 social dwellings must be developed annually and for this the government must invest a sum of €6.4 billion per year. Academics and the Federal Building Ministry agree that as well as this more tax benefits must be provided for investment in the building of housing. According to estimates by the Institute for Employment Research, it could be expected that in the long term 55 percent of the refugees in Germany should be able to work. However the refugees in Germany are not being systematically asked about their qualifications so as to be able to help them get started, criticised Claudia Walter, project manager for integration and training in the Bertelsmann Foundation. But it is crucial for the integration of refugees whether they find work in Germany. Work is the key to social contact and to appreciation of the host society, and also to the self-esteem of the immigrant says migration researcher Dietrich Thränhardt. According to Thränhardt, a political shift has taken place in Germany: from a ban on employment for refugees to an appreciation of work. While in the past asylum seekers were forbidden to work for up to five years, this was reduced in November 2014 to three months, as with the residence obligation which limits asylum seekers to one place of domicile. As far as the majority of society is now concerned, particularly in view of skills shortage, refugees should be allowed to gain faster access to the job market. One big obstacle to access to the jobs market is the lack of knowledge of the German language. To date there is still no adequate supply of general and work-related language courses. Studies also show that jobs are most often found through personal contact. Thus, in Thränhardt's view, the building of networks is the ideal solution to work integration. The Berlin school administration has noticed that only a few refugee parents have placed their children in kindergarten; an estimated one to 15 percent. "For the uprooted parents their first priority is to keep the family together," says Ilja Koschembar, spokesman for youth and family affairs in the Berlin Senate administration. To be able to convince families of the benefits of kindergartens, the administration is issuing leaflets in a number of languages. If the need for teachers increases sharply because of the large number of refugees the Berlin Senate would try to raise the training capacity, for example by allowing for more technical colleges. In the states, pupils with no knowledge of German will be prepared for lessons in welcoming classes. However they will not always be taught by fully qualified teachers but, as in Berlin, also by teachers who only have a qualification in German as a second language. There is no shortage of these, says Beate Stoffers from the Berlin school administration. The German student services estimate that around 20 percent of refugees want to study in Germany. In principle no federal state prohibits asylum seekers or those with long-term refugee status from studying - the only exception up to now was Berlin: Senator for the Interior Frank Henkel (CDU) has however now abandoned his stance. Refugees who want to study may have their entrance to university facilitated. Refugees with a residence permit or protection against deportation no longer receive benefits according to the asylum seekers benefits act if they begin a course of study. In principle the latter receive no grant, as they do not fall into the category of persons entitled to a grant. Tolerated refugees up to now must have lived for years in Germany in order to be entitled to a grant; from 1 January 2016 this period is reduced to 15 months. But this financing gap must also be closed, claim Steffen Krach, Berlin's State Secretary for Science, and the German student services. The students should receive a grant immediately. Islam will play an important role in the future as the refugees are Muslims and for many religion is an important part of their identity. The state should gradually grant Islam the same rights as the churches have and the existing state-church law should be developed into a state-religion relationship. The founding of an Islamic welfare organisation, which looks after new arrivals in a professional manner, is also important. Rights also involve responsibilities. Thus the representatives of Islam must agree to clear points of contact and be ready to cooperate with the state in many areas and to concede certain control options. This also requires the readiness to act courageously against religious fundamentalism. The chairman of the Central Council of Muslims, Aiman Mazyek, expressed the fear on Thursday that religious conflict could also be brought to Germany. Those who want to wage such conflict in Germany "have immediately forfeited their right to stay here in Germany," he said on Bavarian radio. He suggested translating this basic law into Arabic. In the future integration will be a topic for the whole of society even more than it is today. This means too that mainstream society will have to change and the removal of discrimination and racism is becoming more urgent. For nearly 10 years, as a result of European rulings, Germany has had an anti-discrimination agency and a general equality act. But it is learning very slowly, as the NSU murder series shows, that racist motives are systematically ignored in the police and the authorities. Equal opportunities for all: what migrant organisations and non-white German pressure groups have demanded for a long time, and to which international treaties such as the anti racism convention in Germany are committed, must become reality in the next 10 years if the country wants to remain at peace and to exploit the opportunities of its new citizens - for the good of everyone. Germany is in a position generally to provide medical care for the refugees expected up to now, is the opinion of the president of the Doctors' Association, Frank Ulrich Montgomery. "As far as manpower and capacity are concerned, we can cope," he told the Tagesspiegel. However extra money must be added to the system for this. In order to avoid bottlenecks, Montgomery asked for all new arrivals to be issued with healthcare cards when they register. Services provided can be accounted for with the Federal states later. And in the long term it is highly doubtful that so many people can be fobbed off with the limited catalogue of services for which the Benefits for Asylum Seekers Act provides. Apart from this, doctors are making it their priority to deal with the language barrier. Up to now, as Berlin health researcher Thea Borde has established, migrants have received poorer information about their illnesses than other patients. Interpreters must be taken on not only in hospitals but also in doctors' practices, she demands. But many refugees would also already be helped with more general medicine drop-in centres in emergency rooms. And with a different diagnostic view. Refugee children for example clearly suffer from more untreated disabilities, and with young people it is more a case of information about HIV. German doctors though are able to use their training to deal with the partly different disease patterns, said Montgomery "Parasite infections or tuberculosis are not that difficult to recognise." And because of the refugees there is possibly relief in sight for the shortage of doctors. Syria has a highly developed educational system and a number of refugees are expected to be doctors. To be allowed to practice, however, they must prove their qualifications and possibly take more exams. In the estimation of the Federal Psychotherapeutic Association (BPtK), at least half of the refugees arriving in Germany are mentally ill: most of them are suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder or depression. Refugee children are particularly vulnerable, explains Dietrich Munz, president of the BPtK. A soon-to-be published study by the TU in Munich documents that every fifth Syrian refugee child arrives traumatised in Germany. Those who suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder suffer among other things from so-called flashbacks, difficulties in breathing, dizziness, palpitations and fear of death. Further symptoms are sleep and concentration disorders, nervousness and emotional numbness. In order to prevent the symptoms becoming chronic, early treatment is necessary, explained Munz. Up to now, however, only four percent of mentally ill refugees have received psychotherapy. Mentally ill asylum seekers are permitted to make an application with the social security services for psychotherapy, but processing usually takes several months. In addition, it is mostly officials or doctors in the social services who are not trained in psychological illnesses who decide whether therapy is necessary or not. This frequently leads to false assessments, says Munz.
The ring invites you to dream With their new "Passion" production, Circus Probst is returning to the traditions of the art of the circus. The aim is to draw every age group under the spell of mesmerising acrobatics, animal dressage and unique entertainment. Now Circus Probst is issuing an invitation to dream in the ring at the Ziegelwasen. "Our passion is our circus." "I couldn't imagine living without my circus family," says Stephanie Probst, animal trainer and junior manager. "Passion" - this is the motto for the current production in the ring. The circus has been owned by the Probst family for over 33 years. The family has the gift of enthralling people in their blood. "It's important for us to take people away from their daily lives and to take them with us into another world for two hours," stresses the 27-year-old junior manager. Director Reinhard Probst calls his concept a "Cocktail in the ring with a cosmopolitan flair." Fifty towns have the chance to experience this flair on the almost 3000 kilometre-long tour. The circus programme wins people over with talented artists from all over the world. Distinguished at the international circus festival in Monte Carlo, the Russian Stoliarov clown family captivate the public with wit and charm. The Castillo brothers, too, know their craft. The Cuban duo are ready to compete with the heroes of silent films. Lightness and agility - these words sum them up. Their humorous artistry on the pole will win the women's hearts. Apart from causing numerous bursts of laughter, the Circus Prost's acrobats are also mesmerising with their finesse and suppleness. Balancing on a ball with a unicycle? No problem for He Yuan. Contortionists enthrall and terrify at the same time. Wang Lin, from China, is better acquainted with the oldest form of acrobatics than most and thrills with his flexibility. Sixty entertainers from 12 nations offer diversity in every respect. "The animals belong to our family," insists Staphanie's mother, Brigitte Probst. Different animal welfare organisations all too often complain about mistreatment of circus animals. Stephanie Probst has her own answer to this: "If our animals aren't happy, then nor are we." About 80 animals from five different continents enjoy every bit of attention. The "four-legged artistes" as they are affectionately known, have their every wish fulfilled as far as possible. We want to work together with the animals and have fun with them. If the animal doesn't feel well, it doesn't want to go in the ring either. So the top priority is to look after the animals well. The Probst family are especially proud of their zebroid, Jumbo - the offspring of a Shetland pony stallion and a zebra mare. The two animals lived together in one enclosure for eight years and nothing happened. "Then suddenly there was our little Jumbo," says Brigitte Probst. But the zebroid is not yet ready for the ring, instead he is a unique little mascot for the Circus Probst. There is something for every visitor. "One thing is for certain," says Stephanie Probst, "regardless of whether there are five or 1,200 people in the audience, we give them our best and do it with all of our hearts. Circus Probst invites you to come and see their show every day from 17 to 20 September at 5 p.m. and 8 p.m. The programme begins at 11 a.m. and 4 p.m. on Sunday. Thursday is family day; there is a discount on the price of the show. And the animal show is open daily from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Refugees arrive in Weimar On Tuesday afternoon 49 people reach the municipality of Weimar after a mostly long flight. The refugees come from Syria, Albania, Afghanistan, Macedonia and Somalia. The youngest arrival is a six month old girl from Syria.
440 hp sports car rented and written off A 29-year-old wanted to fulfil a dream and rented a Ford Mustang. He got a rude awakening on the wet motorway. A company in the district of Gotha allows you to fulfil your dream by renting out and driving an American V8 Ford Mustang Boss 302 440 hp sports car. So the 29-year-old from the Gotha district did just that. The end of his dream came on the A 71 motorway near Arnstadt. The 29-year-old lost control of the sports car, got into a skid on the wet road and drove into the crash barrier. The sports car was a write-off but no one was injured. Damage is estimated at €40,000.
Xavi: Pep Guardiola prevented switch to FC Bayern in 2008 World and European champion Xavi has played for the al-Sadd Sport Club in Qatar since summer 2015. A few years ago, FC Bayern was apparently close to committing to Spain's superstar Xavi, who at the time was playing for FC Barcelona. Eight times Spanish champion, three times cup winner, four times Champions League winner, twice club world champion, twice European champion, one time world champion - Xavi's list of titles is breath-taking. In the summer the then 35-year-old left FC Barcelona after 24 years and transferred to Qatar and the al-Sadd Sport Club. But in an interview with Marca, Xavi reveals now that just before the 2008 European Championship he was ready to leave Barcelona. "I was told that Barça wanted to sell me." "At the time Madrid were winning everything and we weren't," he says. And FC Bayern noticed that too. Xavi: "There was an offer from Bayern." "Rummenigge wanted to have me." A quick reminder: in the summer of 2008, Jürgen Klinsmann took over at FC Bayern. Guardiola was the reason that Xavi did not transfer. The transfer never happened. And instead the crucial man now works for the German record champion: Pep Guardiola. Xavi explains why. "Barça had signed on Guardiola and I played a brilliant European Championship." "Pepe told me that I shouldn't transfer, that he couldn't imagine the team without me." "He got me with that." Who knows how Bayern's 2008/2009 season would have turned out if Xavi had left. Xavi covered the entire distance on the turf for Barça in the quarter final of the Champions League against Bayern, knocked the Reds out (4:0, 1:1) and at the end celebrated the premiere class triumph.
Hundreds of refugees to be given accommodation in Wiesbaden A train carrying hundreds of refugees is on the way to Hesse. They are expected to arrive by Wednesday night. The people who have travelled there will then be housed in emergency shelters in Wiesbaden, according to a statement made by the city of Wiesbaden on Tuesday evening. They estimate that between 450 and 750 refugees will arrive. A number of sports halls in the Hessian capital have been prepared for this eventuality over the last few days. Up to 1000 refugees can be provided with temporary accommodation in these. After this they should be redistributed to other communities. According to a statement by the regional council of Giessen, responsible for their initial reception, 7500 people have arrived in Hesse in the past ten days alone Due to the large number of refugees, emergency shelter has also been set up in sports halls in Frankfurt and Hanau.
Ischinger: German military action in Syria an option The head of the Munich Security Conference, Wolfgang Ischinger, believes that military action in Syria with participation from Germany is a possibility. "I believe that determined consideration about military courses of action should not take place without Germany," he said. He accused the European nations of "collectively looking the other way." Four years ago one would have been happy for the chalice of military involvement to pass Germany by. "Now the conflict has come crashing down at our front door," he said on the German World Service. The former German Ambassador to Washington also called for a massive increase in international aid locally for the refugees.
Austria running checks on southern and eastern borders According to Germany, Austria has once more introduced checks to its southern and eastern borders. The Austrian Interior Minister, Johanna Mikl-Leitner, stated on the Austrian television channel ORF on Tuesday evening that currently nobody is being sent back to Hungary. Nor has Germany sent any refugees back to Austria. "No, that is the agreement," she confirmed. On the question of an agreement about whether a specific number of refugees per day can be taken to go to Germany from Austria, Mikl-Leitner said that discussions on this matter have already been held between the general director for public security and representatives of Germany. She gave no specific figures and referred to talks in Berlin on Wednesday. Over the last few days tens of thousands of refugees have arrived in Austria from Hungary over the so-called Balkan route. Most of them are heading to Germany. German Chancellor Angela Merkel (CDU) and her Austrian colleague, Werner Faymann, together with a number of other EU states and heads of government, are proposing a special summit for next week. On Sunday Germany started to impose temporary border controls. To date the EU states have not been able to agree to a common approach to the crisis. At a special meeting next Tuesday (22 September) the EU interior ministers want to make a new attempt at a mandatory redistribution of a further 120,000 refugees. In view of the heavy influx of refugees into Germany, the Federal government wants to provide more support to the states with initial reception and distribution of people. The Federal government will manage this jointly with the states, announced Merkel late on Tuesday evening after a discussion lasting almost four hours with the Prime Minister in the Chancellor's office in Berlin. Merkel stressed that those people who need protection will get it. But those who have no prospects of permanent residency will not be able to stay in Germany. This opinion is also clearly generally shared. The Chancellor stressed that the country as a whole must now make a "huge effort." Thousands of desperate refugees are currently stuck on the Balkan route. On Monday night Hungary closed its 175 km long border with Serbia. A few hours later the government in Budapest announced that it was also going to seal off the border with Romania with a fence. Unlike Serbia these neighbouring countries belong to the EU. Hungary wants to prevent people smugglers finding alternative routes through Romania, said Hungary's Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto about the planned new border fences. The Romanian government immediately condemned the plan. The first arrests of people who had breached the fence have taken place. In Turkey meanwhile, according to eyewitness reports, thousands more migrants are heading for the Greek borders.
"Cassini" space probe finds ocean on Saturn's moon Enceladus Under the icy crust of Saturn's moon Enceladus splashes a global ocean. Scientists have deduced this from observing the "Cassini" space probe This is the reason the moon wobbles slightly in its orbit of the ringed planet. This wobbling is only minor, but nevertheless too much for a solid celestial body, it was stated on Tuesday in a communication from Cornell University in Ithica in the US state of New York. The scientists have published their findings in the "Icarus" scientific journal. It has long been known that there must be liquid water under Enceladus's crust of ice. "Cassini" had already discovered ice volcanoes, which spew water vapour and ice particles that feed the so-called E ring of Saturn, at the south pole of this moon in 2006. Astonomers concluded at the time that there had to be a subsurface sea at least at the south pole. The extent of the hidden ocean was however not clear.
Rama absent from 1860 Munich for several weeks 1860 Munich must do without attacking midfielder Valdet Rama for about a month. An examination revealed that the 27-year-old has suffered an adductor injury, the club revealed. Rama had complained of pain at the beginning of the week. According to the Munich Lions, the diagnosis means "probably a four week compulsory break." "It's hit us hard. Rama is a bitter loss." "We have to think about it of course," Sports Director Necat Aygün told the "Bild" newspaper, regarding the possible engagement of a professional who is not attached to a club. However the next training guest the sexagenarian is due to present is a defender. Thirty-year-old Hrvoje Cale last played in Belgium and was formerly under contract to VfL Wolfsburg. At the moment the Croatian has "the opportunity to prove himself." Following his concussion, goal scorer Rubin Okotie is returning to training with the team in the coming week. The Austrian international should be getting back to training runs on Thursday. Okotie sustained a head injury in a violent collision in the match with Fortuna Dusseldorf (0:3). Contrary to initial fears, however, the wound was not serious.
Not a diet fruit - mangoes contain a lot of sugar Mangoes are exotic, juicy and sweet. But anybody watching their waistline should avoid them. Because mangoes have a relatively high sugar content - primarily sucrose. The exotic fruit is nevertheless healthy: they contain B vitamins as well as vitamins E and C. But most of all mangoes are full of vitamin A and its precursor, beta-carotene. Eating the fruit boosts the sight, immune system and the body's metabolic processes. When buying mangoes they should not be too soft or too firm and they should have a pleasant aroma. It is not possible to tell from the colour of the skin how ripe the fruit is - even green mangoes can taste delicious. They should be kept at room temperature and consumed within a few days. They are delicious on their own or in sweet dishes. A mango also gives a special touch even to savoury dishes. They mitigate the slightly bitter taste of some leaf salads such as chicory and radicchio. And a mango chutney goes well with fish, poultry, lamb and game.
US parcel service UPS is again taking on up to 9,500 temporary staff for its Christmas service in the USA. The company has already started to recruit seasonal workers, UPS reported on Tuesday. We are loooking for drivers in particular. In the past few years, UPS increased its workforce by 9,500 for the four day season. In light of booming online business, UPS and its competitor FedEx have for several years been making provisions earlier in order to be prepared for Christmas business. In 2013 there was harsh criticism of late deliveries by the parcel service.
First a foehn storm, then a pronounced cold front The foehn will break through in the valleys on the northen side of the Alps in the coming night, Meteoschweiz announced on Tuesday. The foehn will blow through the Foehn Valleys on Wednesday, continuing through the night, sometimes at gale force. Once the foehn has died away on Thursday morning a prominent cold front will cut across our region, bringing heavy rainfall, gusty winds and a drop in temperature. According to MeteoNews, Switzerland is currently facing an extensive area of low pressure being brought from the British Isles in a strong southwestern flow. The foehn will break through the valleys on the northern sides of the Alps during Tuesday night. The foehn will then blow through the Foehn Valleys until Thursday morning with gusts of 60 to 100 km/h; occasionally, and particularly in the canton of Uri, increasing at times to over 100 km/h. In places the foehn may advance into the adjacent midland, and on the mountains gale force winds of over 120 km/h are even possible. While in the north stormy foehns on Wednesday will bring summery temperatures of 23 to 27 degrees, moisture will begin to build up on the southern slopes of the Alps. Here it will start to rain and this will continue until Thursday evening. Over the next 48 hours the south of the Alps can expect over 100 litres of rain per square metre in places, following on from a large volume of rain which has fallen over the last few days. On Thursday morning the foehn will die down, resulting in a cold front with heavy, sometimes thundery rain rolling from west to east over Switzerland. In conjunction with the cold front, the wind will get stronger increasing to stormy, and temperatures will decrease sharply. The following days will be autumnal in the north with temperatures of 15 to 20 degrees, whereas in the south it will be sunnier and warmer at the weekend with temperatures up to 25 degrees.
Rome now has a Martin Luther Square Some 500 years after the Reformation, Rome now has a Martin Luther Square. In the presence of the Mayor of the City, Ignazio Marino, a hitherto unnamed square in the park on the Oppio Hill was on Wednesday bestowed with the name of the German reformer. On the "Piazza Martin Lutreo" he is now recognised as the "German theologian of the Reformation." The park is in the centre of Rome right next to the Colosseum The consortium of Evangelical churches in Rome proposed the choice of name. Jens-Martin Kruse, minister of the Evangelical Lutheran community in Rome, recalled on Wednesday that for centuries Protestants in the Pope's city often had to hide their faith. The square is a visual symbol that their tradition of the Christian faith is welcome in Rome. As a young Augustinian monk, Martin Luther (1483-1546) stayed in Rome for a few months at the turn of the year between 1510 and 1511. At the time he considered the city to be a degenerate hotbed of vice. According to historians, his negative impressions may have been reinforced in his later fight against Rome. Luther heralded the beginning of the Western Church with his theses against the selling of indulgences.
Talented artist invests three years in his personal interpretation of the Bible. Jesus with the (gilded) crown of thorns is one of the major works that Otmar Alt has painted for his Bible. Klaus Altepost has written an introduction and updated the text of the Bible. In the beginning was the word? No, not in the Otmar Alt Bible, which has now been issued with magnificent pictures. For Otmar Alt, who has devised his own personal interpretation of biblical stories in 150 motifs on paper and canvas, in the beginning was the picture. The 75-year-old conceived his "language" with bright colours and imaginative forms - which are however by no means synonymous with "funny" pictures. On the contrary: depending on the respective themes, they can appear to be thoroughly gloomy. Otmar Alt worked on his Bible project for around three years and for this project he made a subjective choice from an artistic perspective from the many subject areas in the "Book of books." Cycles evolved, dedicated to topics such as the Way of the Cross, plagues, the Commandments or the Lord's Prayer. Without even approaching them, he immediately attacted multiple partners: this applies to the Luther Verlag, a publisher specialising in theological works as well as the Kettler Verlag, who focus on publishing art books. And in particular author Klaus Altepost, who has grappled with the particular Bible passages based on the paintings. He has interpreted the Bible texts selected by Otmar Alt and "translated" them to the current day, in a topical context. These texts are like verbal mirrors of Alt's paintings. They are embedded between the original Bible quotations of Martin Luther and each composition by the artist, who has here formulated his own personal concepts for the respective situations. The decorated cover of the book is lettered in gold. The 75-year-old allows at the same time a twofold insight, deep into both his soul and his emotions. This is particularly intimate. Ultimately, his emotions were the key trigger for the Bible project: Otmar Alt, who was born in Wernigerode in 1940 and grew up in Berlin, comes from a family belonging to the strict Protestant Herrnhut order. "Education there took place under the shadow of the cane," remembers Otmar Alt. "I have tried to process this, so that perhaps I can come to terms with the Lord again. His second point is that he wants to help art once more to take a more significant place in this fast moving age: "The perception of the visual world today is shaped by advertising, which is loud. Symbolism has been driven out. Artists have a different passion and joy in presenting things. Pictures always have something mysterious about them; they are not decoration. "In this respect, I am a dinosaur." Otmar Alt wants his viewers to let themselves "fall into" the pictures, to let them leave their impression, to discover and experience the power they have: "The picture is looking for its counterpart." At the launch of the Otmar Alt Bible on Tuesday, Klaus Altepost confessed to having "always" been a lover of Otmar Alt's art: "I like the way he sees life with his pictures." Alt was not interested in recording the whole of the Bible, selecting only the the themes which were for him the most significant and also the most mysterious. "This wasn't a collaboration between partners," says Altepost, "it was about the pictures; the text is merely an explanation." The result is a picture Bible. For Hans Möhler of the Luther Verlag this work is an invitation "to add depth to his life and to find freedom." Otmar Alt's pictures speak, for Möhler, the (biblical) language of love as well as that of responsibility. Some of the originals - paper and canvas - will be shown for the first time in an exhibition which opens on 15th November in the Otmar Alt Foundation.
Start of construction draws closer for BMX track Plans made, site found, company commissioned, mound for a circuit modelled: one year later, everything was nearly finished - but even before the official opening of the BMX track it was closed again. Political and administrative failings caused anger, particularly with residents who did not want to put up with the track. So the mound was demolished and the search began for a new site - now with a formal application for planning permission. Approval will be received in October, chief local councillor Sabine Mosebach-Boch has now been able to inform the children's and young people's committee. "I hope that this year something will be seen to happen," she said. The work should then be started without any "further pause for thought" at the site of the former indoor swimming pool.
DFB steps up its commitment to refugees The German football league gave clear indications at the weekend that the DFB is extending its commitment to refugees to 2019. Football has reacted to the deteriorating situation in Germany and promised politicians its help with the current problems. "I consider this to be the biggest challenge in our country since reunification." "Basically nobody knows, it's no concern of mine, it's not my doing." "It is in the interests of everybody to get to grip with this issue," says DFB chief Wolfgang Niersbach. He wants to debate the subject of the refugee situation in Germany intensively at the annual meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel on 23 September in Berlin. I'm going to be in the Chancellor's office next Wednesday and I'm meeting there with State Minister Ms Özoğuz and the Chancellor." "I'm sure the topic will play a central role there," he announces. Football can and will help. But the politicians must set the deciding guidelines. The German Football Association has therefore extended its refugee initiative "1:0 for a welcome" to four years. "Through the Egidius-Braun foundation we have ensured that this program will continue until 2019," declared Niersbach on the brink of the UEFA meeting in St Julian's, Malta Several teams are also supporting the programme. This very weekend the 36 professional clubs will be sending out a clear message when they wear the words "We are helping - #refugeeswelcome" on the left sleeve of their strip instead of the usual sponsor's logo (Hermes). "We are doing this to make it clear that everyone should help where and in any way they can," Leverkusen's sport boss Rudi Völler told the "Bild" newspaper on Tuesday, and describes the scheme as "a matter of course." "The refugee drama concerns everyone, nobody can look away." "We football teams can, no, we must use our charisma, our influence, and our opportunities to help the many refugees who have already suffered tremendously," says Hertha manager Michael Preetz. Hoffenheim's Managing Director Peter Rettig spoke of a prominent signal by the league. The women's national team is inviting 100 refugees to Halle (Saale) for the World Cup qualifying match against Hungary. Niersbach describes supporting the refugees as "a grand joint effort by German football." It is amazing that all 36 licensed clubs have started their own projects in their own locations. It is just as amazing that both small and large clubs are doing this. The message "1:0 for a welcome," that we have sent out is being lived in football. "That is of enormous significance," he said. In both this year and next year the association together with the DFB team and the Federal government are making €300,000 available for the integration of refugees. "The clubs have already already released the entire sum for 2015," reports Niersbach.
Reports: SAP chief executive loses an eye in accident According to several reports, the chief executive of Europe's largest software group, Bill McDermott, lost his left eye through a fall at the beginning of July. In an accident on the stairs in his brother's house in the USA after midnight, he fell on a water glass he was carrying in his left hand, reported the "Wirtschaftswoche" on Wednesday. "He almost bled to death, he was unconscious, then he dragged himself out onto the road - so he told us last week," the "WiWo" quoted SAP co-founder Hasso Plattner. McDermott will however be able to return to work. "We are meeting up at the board meeting in Walldorf at the beginning of October," said Plattner. The 54-year-old manager will be at the meeting and "fully fit for work." McDermott announced in an interview with the "Süddeutschen Zeitung" (Thursday's edition) that he will come back to Germany in October and take over the lead at the software group again. "I am definitely there for SAP, completely involved in my job." "I have of course been in regular contact with the board and its chairman, Hasso Plattner, the whole time," McDermott told the "SZ." McDermott normally commutes between Germany and the USA, but since the summer he has no longer been in the SAP German headquarters in Walldorf. Ii is important to him to go public with such a personal story, the manager told the "SZ": "It could happen to anyone." "The important thing is to get up again if you fall down."
McLaren reserve driver Magnussen out of action... Magnussen twittered a photo of the damage and explained that he received the injury falling from a bike. This means that his chances of being reserve driver to the two main drivers, Fernando Alonso and Jenson Button, for the night race in Singapore at the weekend are as slim as those for the Grand Prix in Japan a week later.
Football: BVB v Krasnodar without Reus: Weidenfeller in goal All hopes have been crushed for Borussia Dortmund that Marco Reus might make a comeback in the first group match of the European league. The international player will also be missing from the German Bundesliga leader's match in its dual with FK Krasnodar on Thursday (7 p.m. on Sky). "Unfortunately he isn't in the running," said Thomas Tuchel on Wednesday. The BVB coach is leaving it open as to whether Reus will be there on Sunday in the Bundesliga top match against Leverkusen: "We are expecting him to return to training on Friday." In light of the heavy burden on his professionals, Tuchel does not want to change his first choice 11 just because of Reus's position. So he has announced a change of goalkeeper. Thus Roman Weidenfeller is taking the place of regular keeper Roman Bürki. "He's training at absolute top level," praised the world champion's football coach. Tuchel is leaving it open as to whether Weidenfelder will be used in all European league matches in the future. It is highly likely that he will also play the second game. Midfielder Julian Weigl considers team mate Reus's brisk statement that the final of the European league must be BVB's objective quite understandable: "Marco isn't so far off the mark with that." "I think we've got a good chance of picking up the title."
Robot cars: Government wants Germany to take a leading role The Federal Government wants Germany to be technological leaders in changes to cars. On Wednesday the German cabinet resolved on a policy document introduced by the Minister of Transport Alexander Dobrindt (CSU) which provides, among other things, for investment in development of digital infrastructure. Dobrindt spoke in Frankfurt on Wednesday, on the brink of the IAA motor show, about a "new era of mobility." Automated and networked driving will increase traffic safety and ensure fewer traffic jams, said Dobrindt. He wants to discuss the topic with his counterparts from the G7 countries, who are also meeting with representatives of industry at the IAA. The Transport Ministry policy document stressed among other things the importance of the development of mobile broadband and a rapid switch to digital radio. There is currently a test area on the A9 motorway to try out the new technology. In order that "no extra liability risk will be imposed" on drivers, the government wants to "examine and, where necessary, adapt" legal parameters to the new developments. Germany wants to agree on international provisions for the speed limit for driverless cars to be raised from 10 to 130 kilometers per hour. The German government also wants to reach an agreement on changes to the Vienna Convention, which to date only provides for human beings as drivers. With automatic driving the car increasingly takes control and the driver becomes more and more the passenger. The technology is primarily based on sensors and cameras which capture the environment and process data in seconds. According to a study submitted by the Ministry of the Environment, highly automated driving will be technically possible on motorways by 2020. However driverless vehicles "are not anticipated until 2020" on public roads. The authors of the study estimate the added value in the field of driver assistance systems and highly automated driving functions in Germany will be around €8.4 billion for 2025. "Digital networking of cars can lead to greater safety and efficiency in road traffic," says SPD transport politician Sören Bartol. However the issue of liability for accidents and the security of drivers' personal data must be conclusively clarified. And Germans still view driverless cars sceptically - much more than the French or Americans. A survey by the Forsa Institute commissioned by the testing organisation Dekra, presented to the IAA on Wednesday, concludes that only eight percent of Germans believe that autonomously driven vehicles will catch on in the coming 10 years, 32 percent estimate it will take 20 years and 31 percent do not believe it will happen at all. In France 21 percent of those asked expect to see autonomously driven cars by 2025 and in the USA 33 percent. Anyway drivers in Germany are not yet ready to rely on a completely self driven car. According to a survey by the digital association Bitkom, only seven percent agree that control should be handed over to the car during the entire journey on all roads. Nevertheless, 15 percent could imagine this happening on motorways in free-flowing traffic and 45 percent in traffic jams. Approximately one in four would never give control to the car under any circumstances.
Boll not to play in team and doubles in European Championship As things stand, the Dusseldorf player plans to play only in the singles in the competition, running from 25 September to 4 October. The final decision will be made on 22 September. "It is a major loss for our team." "The lads heard about it this morning." "But we are strong enough to pick up the title without Timo," said national coach Jörg Rosskopf during European Championship training in Dusseldorf. At this time Boll was on a flight to a long arranged appointment with sponsors in China. The 34-year-old German champion is expected back on Friday. "Without Timo we have the disadvantage of no longer being the clear favourites," declared individual European champion Dimitrij Ovcharov. But the Hamelin player, who is the top seed in Ekaterinburg, also remembers the European Championship in Schwechat in 2013. "We didn't have Timo then either, and we still became European Champions." "That is what we need to focus on," declared the world number five.
The English football national player Luke Shaw, of Manchester, United has sustained a severe injury to his right leg. In the course of the tackle in the Champions League game with PSV Eindhoven, the defender was hit by Héctor Moreno and after a long bout of treatment was replaced. Initial diagnosis indicates that the 20-year-old who used to play with Bastian Schweinsteiger has broken his tibia.
Gaultier feels too old to be an enfant terrible It is a mixture of a huge fashion show and a waxworks chamber of horrors: designer Jean Paul Gaultier (63) presented an exhibition of his work in Munich on Wednesday. The highlights: mannequins which look alarmingly human thanks to video projection. They wear the French designer's spectacular creations, which among other things became the big star of the fashion scene with Madonna's stage outfits - and also put men in skirts. "These days I can't say I'm the enfant terrible of haute couture any longer, because I have white hair." "It used to be bleached, nowadays it's real," says Gaultier. For visitors to the exhibition, "From the Sidewalk to the Catwalk," which can be seen in the Kunsthalle at the Hypo Culture Foundation from 1 September, it is fortunate that the fashion designer has changed his initially reluctant attitude to a show about his own character. Originally he was against it because, "For me an exhibition sounded a bit like death," he said. When you die, you get put into a museum. This remarkable collection has already been staged in Montreal, Canada, and in Paris. It's about a lot more than beautiful clothes," says the director of the Kunsthalle, Roger Diederen. It is about tolerance, acceptance and the vision of an open society. The exhibits provide an insight into the hard to overlook work of the man who wrote the history of fashion without ever having finished his education. The show is not constructed chronologically, but it is a brilliantly choreographed complete work of art which has involved a great deal of effort: for example a stylist has been engaged especially to look after the mannequins' hair. According to curator Thierry-Maxime Loriot, the creators carted 14 tonnes of material to Munich. Shortly before the start of Oktoberfest there was also a special treat in store: a Lederhosen outfit with a corset. Heidi meets Madonna He has always been interested in strong women ("Women are cleverer than men") and in people who are a little different, says Gaultier. Even Gaultier's old teddy is on show in the exhibition. He represents the designer's first, tentative steps at fashion. As a child (he was not a good pupil and he was bad at football), he dressed his teddy in bras and dresses. His parents did not allow him to play with dolls. Later he taught himself fashion design. He stole fashion magazines and scrutinised other designers' creations, Gaultier told us in Munich. Of course, later I bought them. He was not able to pay the models for his first fashion show. They got nothing, but they were allowed to keep the clothes.
Decoration instead of curtains - Plauen lace as a fashion niche There used to be long embroidery machines in and around Plauen making many metres of embroidered fabrics and laces in vast quantities for customers who made, for example, table cloths and curtains. This is no longer the case today, explains Andreas Reinhardt, managing director of Modespitze Plauen. Instead, fashion is once more important. In the early days of Plauen lace, fashion played a large role, then it was replaced by the home textile industry - and now it is being rediscovered as a niche. Reinhardt gave a few examples: lace in decoration, for accessories such as bags and for traditional costumes. Generally, so-called vintage fashion, based on style eras from the past, is producing an increasing potential for orders. Anyone in the textile industry in Germany who cannot serve a niche is no longer in the market. We are already getting half of all our contracts this way. Modespitze Plauen, together with nine other businesses, is a member of the Plauener Spitze und Stickereien trade association. Only they are allowed to bear the protected label. Sales have fallen by around 80 percent over the last 15 years. There are now hardly any private speciality shops or wholesalers. Our products hardly reach the customers over these channels. Nowadays mass produced goods are manufactured much more cheaply in the Asian region and sold almost exclusively through chains. Furthermore exports to Russia and the USA are currently weakening slightly. This is enough reason for new directions. The trade association is also trying to score with environmental consciousness, as Cordelia Bauer of Stickperle in Falkenstein explains. "As of this year we have implemented a seal of quality which shows that our production is ecologically and socially compatible. Reinhardt added, "This also applies to the materials we use." Qualified designer Ute Schmidt teaches in the faculty for applied arts at the Schneeberg branch of the West Saxony University of Zwickau and specialises in embroidery and lace. In order to face the competition from the Asian regions one has to find high-quality and innovative products. That takes time and courage. There is a field of tension between the designers' newest ideas and businesses, who must think primarily in commercial terms," says Schmidt. This is why existing designs are often only slightly varied in order to keep core customers. A few years ago textile designer Kati Reuter revitalised the historic snowball lace. The machines embroider small beads in selected places. Plauen master goldsmith Bianca Hallebach-Krauße was inspired by this. "In the past I had no use for traditional Plauen lace." Now she uses the snowball lace for her jewellery. Using an elaborate process she embosses the pattern in silver. "Many people in the region identify themselves with Plauen lace - young and old," says Reuter. She also delivers to the USA, Australia and Finland - primarily to customers whose forefathers lived in Plauen and the surrounding area and who want to have a memento. So with my jewellery I see myself as a modern ambassador for Plauen lace.
Disney plans new "Mary Poppins" film You shouldn't interfere with legends, but Disney is daring to make a new film of the classic "Mary Poppins" anyway. But according to "Entertainment Weekly" it is not going to be a remake but a sort of sequel, set 20 years after the first film with the magical nanny. It is about the nanny's experiences with the Banks family in the time of the Great Depression in England. Who is going to take the role of Mary Poppins, played 50 years ago by Julie Andrews, is not yet certain. But the director has been decided: Rob Marshall, whose most recent film was "Into the Woods."
EU wants to double the mercury limit in predatory fish The EU commission wants to double the limits for mercury in large predatory fish and consumers therefore can expect a significantly higher dose of this neurotoxin. The consumer organisation Foodwatch, to which an EU working paper on the subject was made available, is heavily critical of the plans. "Risks and side effects of inappropriate industry and environmental politics will be passed on with full force to pregnant women and small children," declared Matthias Wolfschmidt of Foodwatch. According to Wolfschmidt, the limits for the neurotoxin for large fish at the end of the food chain such as for example shark or swordfish are going to be raised from 1 to 2 mg of mercury per kilogram of fish for "economic reasons." Large predatory fish however are today so heavily contaminated with mercury that based on the still current limits some 50 percent of catches may not be sold. Once the limit has been doubled, however, only 14.5 percent would be unsaleable. In return for this relaxation the EU, according to Foodwatch, wants to tighten the limits for other fish from the current 0.5 mg to 0.1 mg of mercury per kilogram. But Foodwatch describes this as a "trick," because smaller prey fish, such as for example carp, generally have so little contamination that these planned maximum levels are already complied with today. The reduction for small fish therefore is "a perfidious diversionary tactic which helps only the economy," declares Wolfschmidt. Mercury is for human beings a highly toxic heavy metal which accumulates largely in the food chain, above all in predatory fish. For this reason the German government has issued a warning that "even low levels, particularly in unborn children, can lead to damage to the nervous system." The German Environment Minister, however, declared on his home page with regard to the current maximum levels that a "health risk to the general population" is not anticipated. Mercury is released into the environment primarily through the burning of coal. German coal plants, according to written information from the German Ministry of the Environment to Green Bundestag member Annalena Baerbock, discharge more than six tonnes of mercury per year, two thirds of the total amount emitted in Germany. The concentration of mercury in fish, for example in the Elbe, Rhine and Danube, is "extensively exceeded on a long-term basis," the "Spiegel" newspaper quoted from the paper in March. In the past year, Europe-wide alerts on mercury in fish rated among the most frequently reported health risks in the EU warning system RASFF. Foodwatch is calling for consumers to protest against the EU plans under: www.quecksilber-aktion.foodwatch.de
