Mass Slaughter on a Personal Level Peter Englund's intense and bighearted new book, "The Beauty and the Sorrow: An Intimate History of the First World War," begins with a long dramatis personae of the sort that can make your heart sink. Here is advice for proceeding: Gently excise this page and make it your bookmark. You will be getting to know these people very well in Mr. Englund's novelistic telling, and this dramatis personae will function as your GPS, a beacon during those few moments when, like one of his men and women, you are confused and bereft in the fog of war. Mr. Englund is a Swedish historian and journalist. He is also the new permanent secretary of the Swedish Academy, which awards the Nobel Prize in Literature. What he has written here is an unusual book, one he describes, not inaccurately, as "a work of anti-history." It contains few big names, major treaties or famous battles; there are almost no ambassadors, dashing journalists or discussions of tactics and materiel. It's not so much a book about what happened, he explains, as "a book about what it was like." It's about "feelings, impressions, experiences and moods." "The Beauty and the Sorrow" threads together the wartime experiences of 20 more or less unremarkable men and women, on both sides of the war, from schoolgirls and botanists to mountain climbers, doctors, ambulance drivers and clerks. A few of these people will become heroes. A few will become prisoners of war, or lose limbs, go mad or die. Their lives flicker here like votive candles lighted in a church; new ones are added to the mix while some wink out. Mr. Englund's book is a deviation from standard history books. It is a corrective too to the notion that World War I was only about the dire trench warfare on the Western Front. "The Beauty and the Sorrow" expertly pans across other theaters of war: the Alps, the Balkans, the Eastern Front, Mesopotamia, East Africa. Soldiers in this book have beehives fall on them; one has Christmas in Egypt under the pyramids; tsetse flies are an intractable problem. This is a moving book, almost from the start. War floods these people's lives like a natural catastrophe, a Hurricane Katrina that reeks of cordite. When cannon fire is heard in the distance, and you are a woman at home with your children, do you stay or flee? Who is coming, anyway? Almost no one understands what's happening, even why this war is to be fought. "Lack of facts," Mr. Englund observes, "has been padded out with guesses, suppositions, hopes, fears, idées fixes, conspiracy theories, dreams, nightmares and rumors." "The Beauty and the Sorrow" follows individuals like Florence Farmborough, an English nurse in the Russian Army, and Richard Stumpf, a young German high-seas fleet seaman. Their stories are mostly taken from memoirs, letters and other already published material. The accounts of their lives can be terrifying or stirring, but are most fully alive in Mr. Englund's accumulation of small moments, stray details. Many of these are about deprivation and making do. In telling a German schoolgirl's story he says: "Ersatz, everywhere ersatz." "Substitute coffee, fake aluminum, imitation rubber, paper bandages, wooden buttons." He goes on about the ersatz food in Germany. He describes "meat made of pressed rice boiled in mutton fat (and finished off with a fake bone made of wood); tobacco made of dried roots and dried potato peel; shoes soled with wood." There are, he notes, "837 registered meat substitutes permissible in the production of sausages, 511 registered coffee substitutes." Some stories are about honor and bravery. One American recognizes his own impulse toward savagery and declares about war: "You feel that, after all, this is what men were intended for rather than to sit in easy chairs with a cigarette and whiskey, the evening paper or the best seller, and to pretend that such a veneer means civilization and that there is no barbarian behind your starched and studded shirt front." Conversely a British soldier realizes that he will most likely die, and that no one will notice or care. "Once one is resigned to the thought of sacrificing oneself, one would like to think that it might happen in front of an audience," he writes. Instead, it is horribly like "a condemned man being strangled secretly." Other observations are about an old Europe falling away, and about new types of terror. "The conflict has increasingly become an economic competition," Mr. Englund writes, "a war between factories." He catches the arrival of what he calls "a new species in the bestiary of the young century: the articulate and ideologically convinced mass murderer in well-cut clothes who performs his butchery while sitting behind a desk." People behave in unanticipated ways; there is as much base behavior as heroism. Mr. Englund discussed the soldiers who actively tried to catch a venereal disease from prostitutes as a way to evade service at the front. "The most grotesque expression of this can be seen in the trade of gonococcal pus, which soldiers buy and smear into their genitals in the hope of ending up in hospital," he writes. "Those who are really desperate rub it into their eyes, which often results in lifelong blindness." In this translation from the Swedish by Peter Graves, Mr. Englund's prose is supple but unshowy, perfectly suited to his humane task. In dozens of small scenes he catches the way the war has "unleashed uniquely uncontrollable forces: extreme nationalism, social revolution, religious hatred." People begin to ask why their leaders are making them fight. The best books about World War I have often been oblique, like Paul Fussell's "Great War and Modern Memory," or novels, like Erich Maria Remarque's "All Quiet on the Western Front," rather than comprehensive histories. Mr. Englund's volume joins an unconventional pantheon. His book has the most devastating ending I can remember in a piece of nonfiction. I won't give it away. But it's as if he has reached from his book, snatched that dramatis personae page from your fingers, and lighted it with a match.
After an Earlier Misstep, a Minutely Planned Raid Hundreds of police officers were involved, some of them wearing riot helmets. The overnight hours of Monday into Tuesday were chosen because Zuccotti Park would be at its emptiest. The operation was kept secret from all but a few high-ranking officers, with others initially being told that they were embarking on an exercise. Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly was at the center, his presence underscoring how the operation was fraught with challenges for the Police Department. There could be no repeat of episodes in recent weeks, like the pepper-spraying of protesters, that violated department rules and created a firestorm of public sympathy for the squatters. And so the police operation to clear Zuccotti Park of protesters unfolded after two weeks of planning and training. Officials had prepared by watching how occupations in other cities played out. A major disaster drill was held on Randalls Island, with an eye toward Zuccotti. Officials increased so-called disorder training - counterterrorism measures that involve moving large numbers of police officers quickly - to focus on Lower Manhattan. The last training session was on Monday night, on the Manhattan side of the East River. The orders to move into the park came down at the "last minute," said someone familiar with the orders, which referred to the assignment only as "an exercise." "The few cops that I know that were called into this thing, they were not told it was for going into Zuccotti Park," said the person, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "The only people who were aware of them going into Zuccotti Park were at the very highest levels of the department." One reason for the secrecy was a lesson learned by the city. On Oct. 14, officials wanted to clear the park, but then backed off as hundreds of protesters streamed in ahead of time after hearing of the plans. The operation on Tuesday involved officers from various police units, including boroughwide task forces - scores of mobile officers who are usually used to flood high-crime neighborhoods. Mr. Kelly said many people, almost like commuters, had been coming and going from the park during the day, making 1 a.m. a good time to move in. "It was appropriate to do it when the smallest number of people were in the park," he said. Emergency Service Unit trucks with klieg lights and loudspeakers gathered at Pike Slip and the Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive, near the Manhattan Bridge, before moving out. The lights and prerecorded messages booming from the loudspeakers seemed to cow many protesters. As the community affairs officers moved into the park in their light-blue windbreakers, many protesters simply gathered their belongings and left. No tents were touched until 1:45 a.m., the police said, giving the protesters time to gather their belongings. Other teams of officers were seen gathering on the perimeter to move in if arrests were needed in the park. Reporters in the park were forced to leave. Paul J. Browne, the Police Department's chief spokesman, said it was for their safety. But many journalists said that they had been prevented from seeing the police take action in the park, and that they had been roughly handled by officers. Mr. Browne said television camera trucks on Church Street, along the park's western border, were able to capture images. As the police moved west through the dense tangle of protesters" personal belongings, including luggage and plastic lawn and leaf bags stuffed with clothing, crews from the Sanitation Department followed, scooping up what was left behind. Some protesters who refused to move were dragged out, the images appearing on the Internet soon after. A core group of protesters took up positions close to the encampment's kitchen area, near the center of the park. Some made a barrier, and the police moved in to methodically arrest them. About 10 people in the epicenter of the encampment locked themselves together by their arms. And two people chained themselves to trees, Mr. Kelly said. Emergency service officers were called in to cut the locks. No arrests were made in the park until about 3:30 a.m., Mr. Kelly said. The clearing operation was complete about 75 minutes later, the police said. Mr. Browne said about 142 people were arrested in the park. Most of the arrests were for "disorderly conduct and resisting arrest," he said. The highest-ranking officer on the scene was Joseph J. Esposito, the chief of department, the top uniformed officer in the department. Phil T. Pulaski, the department's chief of detectives, was also there. Mr. Kelly, while present, was "not directing operations," Mr. Browne said. A second group of officers waited along the eastern side of Broadway, between Liberty and Cedar Streets, in case they had to move in. Barricades were set up at Cortlandt Street, a block north of the park, and at Pine Street, a block south. From those positions, the police were seen expanding the perimeter even farther outward from Zuccotti Park. At one point, several officers, many with shields, were seen pushing people farther out. About 28 people were on the northern perimeter. Some of the rowdiest action of the night took place south of the park. Around 5 a.m., south of Pine Street, one protester jumped on the hood of a police car, and others were seen releasing the air from the tires of a police van. At one point, a piece of plywood came flying from the crowd. In the end, one officer and one protester were hospitalized.
Support Workers' Union Will Sue City Over Layoffs The union representing hundreds of school support workers who lost their jobs last month plans to sue the city on Wednesday, claiming the layoffs were unnecessary and discriminatory because of their disproportionate impact on schools that serve poor students. The lawsuit is possibly the last weapon available to the union, District Council 37, in its effort to reverse the layoffs. Six hundred seventy-two school aides, parent coordinators and other employees who were among the city's lowest paid lost their jobs on Oct. 7, in a move union leaders have described as political payback for their refusal to let the city access a health care fund run by labor groups to close its budget gap last spring. City officials have categorically denied that accusation. At a City Council hearing last month, Schools Chancellor Dennis M. Walcott said the layoffs were a part of the budget they signed off on in June. One council member fired back, telling him that nothing in the budget specified that school support staff members would be laid off. District Council 37 officials said they filed a notice of claim, warning the Department of Education that it would be sued; it will hold a news conference on Wednesday to announce the lawsuit's filing formally, in State Supreme Court in Manhattan. The suit will list Mr. Walcott and the city's Department of Education as defendants, and counts eight laid-off workers as plaintiffs, all of them black or Latino women, as were most of the aides who lost their jobs. Elizabeth Thomas, a spokeswoman for the city's Law Department, said the city had not seen the lawsuit and therefore could not comment on its specific allegations. According to a draft of the complaint obtained by The New York Times, the union has zeroed in on the number of layoffs at schools in poor parts of the city to support a claim of inequitable treatment, saying poor schools lost more aides because they had been chronically underfinanced. It points out that while there were no layoffs on Staten Island and few layoffs in schools in the Upper East Side or TriBeCa, 17 school aides lost their jobs in District 23 in Brownsville, Brooklyn, and 46 were let go in Districts 8 and 9 in the South Bronx. Noting the loss of five out of eight school aides employed by Public School 36 in Harlem, where 68 percent of the students live in poverty, the lawsuit says, "This is not a neighborhood of well-heeled parents who can fund-raise to make up the budget shortfalls." P.S. 36"s budget was cut by 3.26 percent this year, and it also lost money when the city changed the way it calculates the extra financing for each poor student schools enroll. The union also claims that high school principals may have been misled by the language in a memo authorizing the dismissal of parent coordinators. The memo used the word "excess" to describe the action, even though "excess" more commonly describes the act of moving a teacher from a school's payroll into a pool of available workers whose salaries are paid by the central office. "Sixty-six parent coordinators were laid off," the draft complaint says, "and not merely excessed."
Mission over, Congress ready to agree on Libya It finally looks like Republicans and Democrats on Capitol Hill are ready to agree on something related to the uprising in Libya. All it took was for the revolt to succeed, longtime dictator Moammar Gaddafi to be captured and killed and American involvement to end. On Tuesday, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee is to consider a resolution, sponsored by Chairman John Kerry (D-Mass.), along with Sens. John McCain (R-Ariz.) and Joseph I. Lieberman (I-Conn.), applauding Libyans for their successful rebellion and U.S. troops for their "bravery." "This resolution is about honoring the courageous people of Libya as they begin to rebuild their country," Kerry said. "It's an affirmation of bipartisan support for their democratic aspirations." The language may sound innocuous, but nothing about the Libya debate has been easy so far. This summer, lawmakers from both parties squabbled with each other and the White House over the wording of a series of resolutions to approve or disapprove of the U.S. military's role in the NATO mission in Libya. In June, Kerry and McCain introduced a resolution authorizing the limited use of U.S. military forces in Libya. The bill was defeated in the House by a wide bipartisan margin, and it never came up for a vote in the Senate. But on the same day that bill failed in the House, the chamber also voted down a measure that would have cut funding for American operations in Libya. That left the U.S. mission in a form of legislative purgatory - with Congress upset enough to criticize Obama's handling of the mission but not so angry as to actually pull the rug out from under it. Then Congress's indecision was overtaken by events. Tripoli fell to Libyan rebels in August, and Gaddafi was killed Oct. 20. The NATO mission officially ended Oct. 31. Now the Senate may be ready to act. The Foreign Relations Committee resolution "congratulates the people of Libya for their tremendous courage and extraordinary resilience in liberating themselves" and "commends the men and women of the United States Armed Forces and their coalition partners who engaged in military operations to protect the people of Libya for their extraordinary bravery and professionalism." The resolution also "affirms the national interest of the United States in a successful and irreversible transition to democracy in Libya." Will the new measure earn the full support of the Foreign Relations panel, or will it split lawmakers like the June bill did? The last version was opposed by Sen. Richard G. Lugar (Ind.), the committee's top Republican. Lugar's spokesman said Monday that he had not seen the final version of the new bill yet. Across the Capitol, the House is to vote this week on a constitutional amendment requiring a balanced budget, a top legislative priority of nearly every congressional Republican and some Democrats. The measure, sponsored by Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), will be the first constitutional amendment on the budget or any other topic to actually get a floor vote in the House or Senate this Congress. Other lawmakers have been unsuccessful so far in bringing their amendments to the floor, but not for lack of trying. Goodlatte's is just one of 68 constitutional amendments that have been introduced this Congress, spanning a wide range of topics. Some are duplicates - the same bill offered in both the House and Senate - and others are slight variations on each other. There are at least 15 versions of the balanced budget amendment in the House alone, and another handful that would "control federal spending." Some of those bills are identical too, but they give their sponsors - particularly freshmen Republicans looking to burnish their resumes - the chance to brag that they "authored" such a measure. The Budget Control Act, which passed in August, required that both the House and Senate vote on a balanced budget amendment. In March, 58 senators voted in favor of a non-binding resolution supporting the idea of such an amendment. Beyond the budget, several members want to limit the number of terms members of Congress can serve, while Rep. José E. Serrano (D-N.Y.) wants to lift the two-term limit for presidents. Rep. Jesse L. Jackson Jr. (D-Ill.) has offered a host of amendments guaranteeing the right to quality education and health care, among other subjects. An amendment prohibiting same-sex marriage is a perennial offering, as is one prohibiting flag-burning. Some lawmakers also want to allow for the nullification of federal laws if they are opposed by two-thirds of the states. As eager as members have been to offer amendments, they're not moving at any faster pace than in past years. In the 111th Congress, lawmakers offered 77 such amendments, and they introduced 66 in the 110th. The pace pales in comparison to that of the early 1990s, when members regularly offered more than 150 amendments every two years, according to numbers provided by the Senate Library. But they weren't much more successful then than they are now. The last amendment to be added - the 27th - was ratified in 1992, but it was actually proposed by Congress in 1789.
"Beat up but not beaten," Giffords speaks in first TV interview since shooting Ten months after a gunman shot her at point-blank range at a constituent event in Tucson, Rep. Gabrielle Gifffords (D-Ariz.) appeared on national television Monday night, sang along to the Broadway show tune "The Sun Will Come Out Tomorrow" and said she wanted to get better more than she wanted to return to Congress. Appearing on ABC News's "20/20" with Diane Sawyer, Giffords struggled to formed sentences and needed help walking. The show documented her difficult journey back from the damage inflicted by a bullet that fractured her skull and pierced the left side of her brain, passing from the front to the back of her head. Three months ago, she made a surprise return to the House to triumphantly cast her vote on the debt-ceiling deal. In her first television interview since the January shooting that killed six and wounded 13, Giffords smiled, laughed and sang - and described her recovery as "difficult." Asked by Sawyer how she feels, Giffords, 41, responded, "Pretty good." The interview with Giffords and her husband, astronaut Mark Kelly, was part of an hour-long "20/20" special that aired on the eve of the release of the couple's new book, "Gabby: A Story of Courage and Hope." The special traced Giffords's recovery since the Jan. 8 shooting. In videos shot by Kelly in the first few weeks, she is seen in her hospital bed, her head shaved and a long scar across her forehead. She is capable only of holding up one or two fingers as her husband encourages her. Months later, Giffords is seen sitting up in a wheelchair as therapists teach her how to perform simple actions. A nod of the head. A pucker of the lips. And then, her first word: "What." Within days, Giffords uttered another word - "toast," a request for a change in her breakfast menu. Videos aired by ABC show that music played a central role in Giffords's recovery: The congresswoman is seen singing along with therapists to Cyndi Lauper's "Girls Just Wanna Have Fun" and Tom Petty's "Free Fallin." " In the interview with Sawyer, Giffords, who goes through two hours of therapy every day, said she has no memory of the day of the shooting. Her husband said that he was reading Giffords a newspaper story about the shooting on March 12 when she stopped him to ask for the first time about the six who had been killed in the incident. Suspected gunman Jared Lee Loughner is being held at a Missouri prison and is being forcibly medicated as he awaits trial. "A lot of people died," Giffords told Sawyer. "Tough, tough, tough." At one point in his wife's recovery, Kelly told Sawyer, she said, "I've been beaten." "So, I would say, "Gabby, you have not been beaten," " Kelly said. You've just been beat up. And you're going to get through this, and you're going to recover and you're going to come back stronger than ever.
Troops feel more pity than respect The event was a Wall Street gala that raised millions of dollars for homeless veterans in New York City. Kid Rock sang a ballad about helplessness, frustration and loss. On cue, several hundred soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines strode into position around him. The black-tie crowd rose to its feet and cheered. "The servicemen and women were regarded as heroes," said David Saltzman, who organized the spring fundraiser. A senior military officer at the gala, also attended by the Joint Chiefs then-chairman, Adm. Mike Mullen, saw the troops" role differently. "They were rolled out like some sort of orphan kid," the officer wrote in an e-mail. I'm sure the organizers meant well. I know they did. But it wasn't respect, really. It was pity. The starkly conflicting impressions illustrate the uneasy relationship that has taken hold between the military and an often distant, sometimes adoring American public. The troops are lavished with praise for their sacrifices. But the praise comes with a price, service members say. The public increasingly acts as if it feels sorry for those in uniform. "We aren't victims at all," said Brig. Gen. Sean B. MacFarland, who commanded troops in Iraq and will soon leave for Afghanistan. "But it seems that the only way that some can be supportive is to cast us in the role of hapless souls." The topic is a sensitive one for military leaders, who do not want to appear ungrateful or at odds with the public they serve. They also realize that the anger that returning troops faced in the latter years of the Vietnam War was far worse. As a result, most of the conversations about pity take place quietly and privately among combat veterans. After his two sons returned from combat tours with the Marines, retired Col. Mark Cancian warned them that people outside the military would view their service from two perspectives. Some would look at them with a sense of awe because they faced down insurgents and traveled to exotic places. Others would wonder whether there was an "angry, violent veteran beneath the surface," said Cancian, who fought in Iraq and returned to a senior government job in Washington. During his job search, he said, he sensed that some interviewers had subtly inquired whether he would be able to hold up under the strain of a demanding Washington job immediately after his combat tour. "When you talk about your service, you need to counter the negative impressions," Cancian recalled telling his sons. The military's unease springs, in part, from American indifference to the wars. Battlefield achievements are rarely singled out for praise by a country that has little familiarity with the military and sees little direct benefit from the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. "We, as a nation, no longer value military heroism in ways that were entirely common in World War II," said retired Lt. Gen. David Barno, who commanded U.S. troops in Afghanistan. Instead, praise from politicians and the public focuses largely on the depth of a service member's suffering. Troops are recognized for the number of tours they have endured, the number of friends they have lost or the extent of their injuries.
Military Faces Mounting Pressure to Crack Down on Rape This week, a landmark hearing will decide whether 28 women and men have a case against the military for alleged inaction on rape. If not, hundreds of plaintiffs are lining up for the next one. Pfc. Elizabeth Lyman was 25 years old and 11 weeks pregnant the night she says she was raped by a fellow soldier. It was October 2008, and she was heading back to her barracks at Miramar Air Station, just north of San Diego, after dinner with a friend when she ran into a male colleague carrying a 12-pack of beer. He asked if he could join her in her room for a drink. "A red flag went up," Lyman says. But the Texas native brushed aside her concern. I thought, no, he's 19. "He's from Texas," she says. "I wish I had listened to my instincts." Within minutes of entering Lyman's room, the man came up from behind her, throwing her down and raping her, she alleges. This week, on Nov. 18, Lyman and 27 other current and former military personnel will anxiously await a court ruling in a historic hearing to be held in Arlington, Va., that will decide whether a suit they have brought against former defense secretary Robert Gates and his predecessor, Donald Rumsfeld, will go to trial. The suit alleges that Gates and Rumsfeld failed to curtail widespread rape within the military, in violation of soldiers" constitutional rights. Filed in February by Susan Burke, a Washington, D.C., attorney, the suit initially involved 17 plaintiffs but grew to 28 in the following months - 25 women and three men, all of whom allege that they were raped or sexually assaulted by fellow soldiers, and that the military failed to investigate, prosecute, or provide adequate justice after the alleged attacks. Burke says she is going after the military's top brass because the problem begins with them. "The military is a top-down structure," she says. "Who are the individuals who are in the position to eradicate the culture of retaliation? The top leadership." Burke also says that since February, she has been contacted by nearly 400 other survivors, many of whom could be part of future suits. Her strategy: rather than piling all the plaintiffs into this case - putting all her eggs in one basket, so to speak - she will file multiple cases, if need be, to keep the pressure on. The defense team for the Department of Defense, led by United States Attorney Neil MacBride, has filed a motion to dismiss the case. The court papers, obtained by Newsweek, detail the defense strategy - essentially, that the military cannot be sued by current or former soldiers for injuries incurred in the armed forces. Per a 1950 Supreme Court ruling called the Feres Doctrine, the federal government is not liable for injury sustained by active-duty personnel. "The alleged harms are incident to plaintiffs" military service," the documents say. The Department of Defense declined to comment for this story. Things have changed since the '50s. While women are still officially prohibited from serving in combat, that distinction is in name only: modern wars rarely have clear front lines. In both Iraq and Afghanistan, teams of female soldiers are playing increasingly important roles, especially in reaching out to local women in war zones. The result: between those two wars, 150 female soldiers have died - two thirds of them during combat situations. It's time for the military to modernize as well, Burke says. She isn't alone in her fight; three other lawsuits are under way in addition to hers. At Yale Law School, the Veterans" Legal Services Clinic is preparing a case against the four major military academies for allegedly fostering a misogynistic atmosphere. Separately, the nonprofit Vietnam Veterans of America is assembling a suit against the military that focuses on the "personality disorder" diagnoses assigned to rape victims in order to discharge them from service - a common occurrence, according to activists such as Anu Bhagwati of the Service Women's Action Network, a human-rights group. Her group filed a suit in December against the Veterans Administration, charging it with discriminatory practices in the way it handles benefit claims for people who say they were sexually assaulted in the service. Nine separate bills have been introduced in Congress by a bipartisan mix of senators and representatives, proposing a range of fixes. In 2010 there were 3,158 sexual assaults reported, according to the Department of Defense's Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office. But assaults are notoriously underreported, and by the Pentagon's own estimate, that figure accounts for approximately 13.5 percent of the estimated 19,000 incidents that occurred that year. The report, released in March, also examines prosecution rates: in 2010, 20 percent of reported cases in the military went to trial - half the rate of the civilian justice system. The plaintiffs in Burke's case describe their attacks as just the first of a series of traumas. In Lyman's case, she reported the alleged rape to military police less than an hour after it occurred. That night, she says, she was asked to recount the details of her rape 11 separate times to a stream of police, doctors, and commanders. She did a rape kit, and her assailant's blood - from a cut on his arm - was found in her bed. Six months later, in April 2009, Lyman sat through a hearing before a judge, during which she was questioned about having had sex with her boyfriend earlier on the day of the attack. Six people testified as character witnesses on behalf of the alleged perpetrator, who was eventually acquitted. "I remember the day when the verdict was read," Lyman says. "I thought I was going to go into labor - I ran screaming from the courtroom." "They put me into the psychiatric unit, and when I got out, I remember saying to my command officer, "That wasn't his trial. That was my trial."" Lyman was ordered to visit a military psychiatrist, who eventually diagnosed her with a personality disorder, rendering her unfit for service. In January 2010 she was discharged under less-than-honorable terms, preventing her from receiving any benefits. As for whether the case filed by Lyman and her fellow plaintiffs moves forward, it's a long shot, says John Turley, professor of law at George Washington University Law School. However, he notes, "In my view they should be able to move forward." What stands between them and a verdict is this doctrine that has been criticized since it was first issued. I've been a lifelong critic of the Feres Doctrine. The military is decades behind because they don't have the same incentive and deterrent posed by liability. He adds, "The odds are heavily against them ... but it's important for them to try." These things only change when good people are willing to fight. If the hearing doesn't go their way, Burke, the plaintiffs" lawyer, will cue up her hundreds of other plaintiffs for future cases. "We will continue battling the military on this issue until reform occurs," she says. Or until we die, whichever comes first.
Walls Have Eyes: How Researchers Are Studying You on Facebook Before he became the new face of right-wing extremism in Europe, Anders Behring Breivik was just another guy airing his anti-immigration views online. On Monday, Breivik, who admitted to a killing spree in Norway in July which left 77 people dead, faced his first public court hearing. While Breivik may have acted alone, he was far from alone in cyberspace: he had spent much of the time leading up to his attack at his computer, chatting with some of the millions of nationalists who support right-wing groups on social-networking sites. After this summer's tragedy, researchers wanted to find out more about these people. But how to find them? Easy - just log on to Facebook. "We realized that it wasn't that difficult to get to them at all," says Jamie Bartlett, the lead author of a recently published report on European digital populism by British think tank DEMOS. Facebook's stash of personal information is so encyclopedic, says Bartlett, that the researchers could simply use the site's advertising tool to pinpoint their desired demographic with scientific accuracy - the way marketers have been doing for years. Bartlett's team found half a million fans of right-wing groups across Europe and then targeted them with ads, but instead of linking to a new band or diet product, the ads invited users to complete a survey that asked questions about their education level, attitudes towards violence and optimism about their own future. By reaching out through Facebook, Bartlett and his colleagues were able to survey over 10,000 followers of 14 far-right parties in 11 European countries - all without ever leaving the office. "It's quite a new way of doing research," Bartlett says. Some of the results aren't all that surprising: online supporters of right-wing groups tend to be young, male, and vexed by immigration. But in something of a twist, "those who combine their online activism with offline activism are more reasonable, more democratic and less violent than those who just remain behind the computer screen." DEMOS's work is just one example of how Facebook is becoming a hot new tool in the hands of scientists. Think tanks, medical researchers and political scientists are using the site to study everything from health issues to social trends as expressed in 'Likes', wall posts and status updates. With over 800 million active users adding an average of three pieces of content per day, the Facebook "data supernova" is generating a research boom, driving the number of academic papers with the site's name in the title up almost 800% over the past five years. For some researchers, the beauty of Facebook is that it lets you study people you couldn't approach with a clipboard on the street. "Before, when you tried to survey people from the British National Party, it would be very difficult to identify them." "You'd have to go through the party and they would never allow you access," says Bartlett. "Facebook cuts all that out - you go to them directly." Others say the site could offer a way to identify and tackle social-health problems. A recent study by Dr. Megan Moreno of the University of Wisconsin, Madison and her colleagues found that undergraduates who discussed their drunken exploits on Facebook were significantly more at risk for problem drinking than students who were silent on the topic. Moreno suggests that students' peers, such as residential advisors, could monitor the site and intervene to help a student who posts one too many boozy status updates. "You can't treat a problem if you can't diagnose it," Dimitri Christakis, Moreno's co-author and director of the Center for Child Health, Behavior and Development at the Seattle Children's Research Institute, told the Washington Post. "We've found a way to identify kids at risk who would not otherwise be diagnosed." Facebook, too, is constantly tapping into its own population for data. The site's Data Team has worked up stats on relationship status and Valentine's Day, voter turnout in the 2010 midterms, and a National Happiness Index (mainly using information only it can access - champions of digital freedom have long held that the site should make its vast trove of data available to others for research.) But Facebook's users know the site is watching them, whether they like it or not - the trade off for being able to play Scrabble with a friend thousands of miles away is allowing the site to mine your personal information. But what about when Facebook users become part of a survey they don't even know about? While researchers have well-defined guidelines about how they collect their data offline, online it's a free-for-all. "I don't think a lot of users had even thought about the fact that a researcher could be looking at their profiles," says Neil Selwyn, a sociologist at the London Knowledge Lab, of a 2006 study he conducted using students' public Facebook walls. "As far as they were concerned, it was just between them and their friends." Then there's the question of methodology. Even offline, there's no guarantee that a research subject is being completely honest. On Facebook, it's impossible to know how much of a user's profile information and wall posts are true. "What you say on Facebook and what you do outside of Facebook are two completely different things," says Selwyn. Which is why, despite his years as a technology researcher, Selwyn thinks a clipboard and a pen are still the best research tools anyone can use. "There's no substitute for going into the real world and speaking to real people," he says. "Social research is supposed to be about the social - and a hell of a lot of the social still takes place offline."
"Cold and Inhuman": Anders Behring Breivik Makes First Public Court Appearance Anders Behring Breivik, the man who confessed to masterminding twin attacks that killed 77 people in Norway this summer, has described himself as a "resistance" fighter during his first public court appearance in Oslo. "I am a military commander in the Norwegian resistance movement and Knights Templar Norway," he said before a courtroom packed with 500 people. "I object to the court because you received your mandate from organizations that support hate ideology and because it supports multiculturalism." "I acknowledge the acts but I do not plead guilty." Judge Torkjel Nesheim interrupted Breivik during that monologue because he "did not want to give Breivik the opportunity to use this hearing as a platform for him to express his views." For the same reason he refused to allow Breivik, who brought a pre-written speech with him, to address the relatives of his victims at the end of the hearing. Nesheim also ordered police to hold Breivik in custody for 12 more weeks, banned him from accessing media for four weeks, and said that authorities will have tight control over all visits and correspondence for eight weeks. Around 30 survivors and victims" relatives attended the hearing. Some came hoping to look Breivik in the eye, others to confirm that he is being held under lock and key. All attended with the goal of moving toward closure. "I thought he seemed cold and inhuman," one Utoya survivor told Norwegian broadcaster NRK. "It was uncomfortable, but for me I moved on a little bit after seeing and hearing the suspect." Dressed in a dark suit and blue tie, Breivik remained calm and professional throughout the hearing and looked journalists and survivors in the eye as he entered and exited the building. Despite Breivik's bizarre notion of being part of a larger "resistance" movement, the judge determined that he is not insane, and said that there is no evidence he acted with accomplices. It may comfort some that the July 22 attacks seem to be the work of one extremist rather than a group of radicals. But that doesn't automatically ease the grief and confusion that an entire nation still feels. "I wish he looked like a monster, but he doesn't," a relative of one victim said. "It would be so much easier if he did."
7 Lessons From the Lost Steve Jobs Interview, Showing at a Theater This Week Following the death of Steve Jobs on Oct. 5, there were some who compared him to Henry Ford - singling out the tech genius as the Great Modern Inventor. But what Apple fans might find most revealing in a recently rediscovered Jobs interview dusted off in advance of special movie screenings in major markets this week, is how much this creative mind understood about business processes and product workflows. He was certainly a designer, dreamer and self-identified hippie, but he was also a meticulous organizer and flow-chart tweaker - a man who believed that many business executives suffered from "a disease of thinking that a really great idea is 90 percent of the work... [but] there's a tremendous amount of craftsmanship between a great idea and a great product." Back in 1995, Bob Cringely was developing the TV series Triumph of the Nerds about the dawn of the personal computer, and he sat down for more than an hour with Jobs for a rare, extended conversation. At that point in time it had been roughly 10 years since Jobs had been forced out of Apple, and he was already hard at work at his new computer company NeXT, looking forward to the popular adoption of the Internet. While a small portion of Cringely's interview was used in Nerds, he says that the interview's master copies went missing in shipping. It was only following Jobs" death that a complete VHS copy was discovered in the director's garage. This footage, slightly re-edited, is the basis of the 68-minute Steve Jobs: The Lost Interview, coming to Landmark Theaters this Wednesday and Thursday. For someone known to loathe in-depth interviews, Jobs seems surprisingly eager here to expound on his technological philosophies and business strategies. And incredibly thoughtful. At four different points during the interview, there are major gaps between questions and answers - 10 to 15-second ruminations, where Jobs is clearly weighing his thoughts, aiming for precision. There are also moments where Jobs" perfectionism rises to the surface, where he seems impatient about Cringely's questions, nudging him to move faster towards issues or subplots of greater import. Filmed before the era of Pixar, the iPod or the iPhone, there's something eerily prescient about the Lost Interview, as Jobs assesses what he sees other companies doing right and wrong, and offers his own vision of the future of computing. It's one thing to read posthumous appraisals of Jobs" career, but there's something raw and inspiring about the Jobs we see here, the anxious dreamer on the brink of greatness. He has a vision for the way things could be and should be. Not long after spelling it all out here he went and did it. A quick rundown of seven notable Lost Interview sequences: On how he learned to run a business: "Throughout the years in business, I'd always ask: "Why do you do things?" and the answers you invariably get are: "Oh, that's just the way it's done."" Nobody knows why they do what they do, nobody thinks about things very deeply in business. That's what I found. Jobs goes on to detail his efforts to streamline accounting at Apple. Baffled by the way costs were recorded - often beginning with a "standard cost" that amounted to a blind guess, which was then adjusted with a "variance" - he developed an automated factory that ensured they could determine business costs down to the second. On pranking the Pope: Jobs recounts the "Blue Box" that he built with Steve Wozniak - a device that allowed people to effectively hack the phone company and make long distance calls for free. The device has been widely written about before, but Jobs" euphoria here in describing the Blue Box as an act of empowerment is infectious. He describes how he and Wozniak would test the box by using a pay phone, placing a call, and then connecting from one AT&T network to another while looping in as many satellites as possible. "We were wrapping things around the globe a half dozen times and you would yell through the pay phone and it would come through a minute later in the pay phone next door," Jobs says with a giggle. "We were young and what we learned was that we could build something ourselves that could control billions of dollars of infrastructure around the world." Us two, we didn't know much, but we could build a little thing that could control a giant thing - it was an incredible lesson, and I don't think there would have ever been Apple without it. Jobs goes on to detail one glorious prank that he and Wozniak nearly pulled of, ringing the Vatican via the Blue Box in the middle of the night and requesting to speak to the Pope, while doing their very best impression of Henry Kissinger. As various members of the Catholic hierarchy were summoned in the middle of the night to talk to the American diplomat, the two burst into giggles just before the Pope himself was roused to come answer the phone. On falling in love with technology (and cold-calling Bill Hewlett): At the age of 12, on the hunt for spare parts to build a frequency counter, he looked up Bill Hewlett in the phone book and gave him a call. Not long after their 20-minute phone conversation, Jobs landed a part-time summer job at Hewlett-Packard. "That made a remarkable influence on me, it was the only company I had seen at that age and it formed my view of what a company was and how well they treated their employees." Jobs later became one of the HP employees to visit the company's Palo Alto research labs, where he saw "the first desktop computer ever made." It was as big as a suitcase, had a small cathode ray tube display, and I fell in love with it. I would get a ride up to HP as a teenager and hang around that machine and write programs for it. On improvising innovation: At several points in the interview, Jobs talks about inventing new products on the fly. Early in his career, as he set out to sell a handful of circuit boards, he was asked by a customer to assemble the full computer. Working on only 30 days of credit, he had to figure out both the assembly and delivery of the finished devices. Later while at Apple, he recalls the struggles he faced in developing a computer mouse: "I remember having dramatic arguments...they were screaming at me that it would take five years [to build a mouse that would cost $300], and I got fed up and went outside and found a designer." Ninety days later, we had a mouse we could build for $15 that was incredibly reliable. On great companies losing steam: Long before he led the revival of Apple, Jobs presciently foresaw the ways in which so many industry leaders would stumble in their vision, and lose control of their market share. "Say you work at IBM or Xerox, so you make a better copier or printer, so what?" You have a monopoly of the market share, so the company's not more successful. Sales and marketing makes it more successful, so [it's those kinds of people] who end up running companies and the product people get driven out of the decision-making forum. The product genius that led to that monopolistic position is rotted out by people who have no conception of good products vs. bad products - the craftsmanship required. That's what happened at Xerox... Xerox could have owned the entire computer industry. It could have been ten times its size, could have been the Microsoft of the 90s... They grabbed defeat from victory. On innovation as art form: "There's a tremendous amount of craftsmanship between a great idea and a great product... as you evolve that great idea, it changes and grows." You learn a lot about the subtleties of it. There are tradeoffs you have to make - certain things you can't make electrons do, glass do, robots do, factories do. You have to keep 5,000 things in your brain - these concepts - fitting them all together... Ultimately it comes down to taste - it comes down to trying to expose yourself to the best stuff humans have done, and then trying to bring those things in to what you're doing. Picasso said that good artists copy, great artists steal. We've always been shameless about stealing great ideas. It's part of what made the Macintosh great, was that the people who were working on it were musicians, poets, artists, zoologists, historians who just happened to be the best computer scientists in the world. If not for computer science, they would be doing amazing things in other fields.
Scalia and Thomas dine with healthcare law challengers as court takes case The day the Supreme Court gathered behind closed doors to consider the politically divisive question of whether it would hear a challenge to President Obama's healthcare law, two of its justices, Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas, were feted at a dinner sponsored by the law firm that will argue the case before the high court. The occasion was last Thursday, when all nine justices met for a conference to pour over the petitions for review. One of the cases at issue was a suit brought by 26 states challenging the sweeping healthcare overhaul passed by Congress last year, a law that has been a rallying cry for conservative activists nationwide. The justices agreed to hear the suit; indeed, a landmark 5 1/2-hour argument is expected in March, and the outcome is likely to further roil the 2012 presidential race, which will be in full swing by the time the court's decision is released. The lawyer who will stand before the court and argue that the law should be thrown out is likely to be Paul Clement, who served as U.S. solicitor general during the George W. Bush administration. Clement's law firm, Bancroft PLLC, was one of almost two dozen firms that helped sponsor the annual dinner of the Federalist Society, a longstanding group dedicated to advocating conservative legal principles. Another firm that sponsored the dinner, Jones Day, represents one of the trade associations that challenged the law, the National Federation of Independent Business. Another sponsor was pharmaceutical giant Pfizer Inc, which has an enormous financial stake in the outcome of the litigation. The dinner was held at a Washington hotel hours after the court's conference over the case. In attendance was, among others, Mitch McConnell, the Senate's top Republican and an avowed opponent of the healthcare law. The featured guests at the dinner? Scalia and Thomas. It's nothing new: The two justices have been attending Federalist Society events for years. And it's nothing that runs afoul of ethics rules. In fact, justices are exempt from the Code of Conduct that governs the actions of lower federal justices. If they were, they arguably fell under code's Canon 4C, which states, "A judge may attend fund-raising events of law-related and other organizations although the judge may not be a speaker, a guest of honor, or featured on the program of such an event." Nevertheless, the sheer proximity of Scalia and Thomas to two of the law firms in the case, as well as to a company with a massive financial interest, was enough to alarm ethics-in-government activists. "This stunning breach of ethics and indifference to the code belies claims by several justices that the court abides by the same rules that apply to all other federal judges," said Bob Edgar, the president of Common Cause. "The justices were wining and dining at a black-tie fundraiser with attorneys who have pending cases before the court." Their appearance and assistance in fundraising for this event undercuts any claims of impartiality, and is unacceptable. Scalia and Thomas have shown little regard for critics who say they too readily mix the business of the court with agenda-driven groups such as the Federalist Society. And Thomas" wife, Ginni, is a high-profile conservative activist. Moreover, conservatives argue that it's Justice Elena Kagan who has an ethical issue, not Scalia and Thomas. Kagan served as solicitor general in the Obama administration when the first legal challenges to the law were brought at the trial court level. Her critics have pushed for Kagan to recuse herself from hearing the case, saying that she was too invested in defending the law then to be impartial now. Kagan has given no indication she will do so.
Boeing gets record $18-billion jetliner order Emirates airline orders 50 twin-aisle Boeing 777 jetliners with an option for 20 more. Boeing also sells six Boeing Dreamliners to Oman Air, a deal worth more than $1 billion. It's rarely news when a company gets an order for 50 units of its product. But it's a big deal when the company is airplane-maker Boeing Co. and the list price for those 50 airplanes totals a record $18 billion. Just as big is where Boeing got the order: the Middle East, a growing gold mine of future airplane orders. In a forecast released Monday, the Chicago company estimates that airlines in the Middle East over the next 20 years will need 2,520 airplanes worth $450 billion. Boeing over the weekend announced its biggest-ever order by dollar value for commercial airplanes - 50 twin-aisle Boeing 777 jets. The blockbuster order came from Emirates airline in Dubai. The airline also has an option to buy 20 more planes, which would push the total list price to $26 billion, Boeing announced at the 2011 Dubai Air Show. Then on Monday, Boeing said Oman Air ordered six Boeing 787-8s, the so-called Dreamliner, which boasts dramatically better fuel economy and passenger amenities. List price for six of those is more than $1 billion. "This is clearly a huge positive for Boeing," Morningstar analyst Neal Dihora said. "The quality of these particular customers is pretty strong." Many Middle East airlines are owned by their oil-producing nations. So, not only do they have the money to pay for planes, but a surge in fuel prices - usually damaging to airlines because it's one of their biggest costs - is not as detrimental because the country is making money on the higher price of oil. That's important because they will be less likely than other airlines to cancel or delay airplane orders when fuel prices rise, Dihora said. "They have a natural hedge," he said. The Emirates order solidifies Boeing's lead in the market for wide-body planes and helps hold at bay competitor Airbus SAS' attempt to encroach on its dominance with the A350 airliner. Boeing's win at the air show comes four months after Airbus said it would push back the debut of the largest A350, which competes directly with the 777-300ER. It delayed the debut to add more thrust after customers demanded more payload and range. Boeing Co shares rose 1.5% to $67.94.
Mexico president's sister apparently defeated in Michoacan vote Luisa Maria Calderon alleges that drug traffickers helped opponent Fausto Vallejo of the PRI in the governor's race. President Felipe Calderon's sister appears to have lost her bid for governor of Michoacan during violent state elections, and she alleged Monday that drug traffickers helped tip the race in favor of one of her opponents. Preliminary results gave the lead in the race for governor of the western state to Fausto Vallejo of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI. "The intervention by organized crime during the entire election process and especially yesterday is alarming, not just for Michoacan but for the entire country," Luisa Maria Calderon said in a radio interview a day after Sunday's vote. "They threatened our candidates, our poll workers.... They seized ballot boxes, set up roadblocks ... and ordered people to vote" for the PRI. The PRI ruled Mexico for seven decades until losing the presidency in 2000. But it is staging a comeback, and victory in Michoacan is an important step in that effort. The PRI is hoping to win the presidential election in July. Vallejo appears to have only narrowly edged out Calderon, who had led polls before election day. Calderon, a candidate for her brother's conservative National Action Party, or PAN, refused to recognize Vallejo as the winner. Silvano Aureoles, the candidate for the leftist Democratic Revolution Party, or PRD, which currently holds the governorship, came in third, a bad defeat for the divided and hapless left ahead of the 2012 presidential vote. Aureoles also refused to recognize the preliminary results. Vallejo, former mayor of the state capital of Morelia, denied ties to drug traffickers and urged the other candidates to accept the results. Michoacan has long been dominated by drug cartels specializing in marijuana, heroin and methamphetamines. It is President Calderon's home state, and he chose Michoacan to launch a military-led offensive against traffickers in December 2006. Yet violence has persisted. A PAN mayor was assassinated a week before the election as he campaigned for Luisa Maria Calderon, and numerous candidates quit local races out of fear. For the PRI, though, however nasty the Michoacan election looks, a win will help the party's momentum. The man expected to represent the PRI in the presidential race, Enrique Pena Nieto, speaking from Washington, congratulated Vallejo and said, "I think this victory should be very encouraging, looking ahead to next year."
ADB urges Asia to help rescue eurozone The Asian Development Bank has called for India and China to be ready to help rescue the eurozone from its sovereign debt crisis to avoid a long-term downturn that will stunt the growth of Asian economies. Rajat Nag, the managing director of the Manila-based ADB, said the world's two fastest-growing large economies had to "do all they can" to speed the recovery of the the currency bloc either through the International Monetary Fund or direct bilateral arrangements. He warned against Bric [Brazil, Russia, India, China] countries looking at Europe's difficulties in a "dispassionate way" and said that Asian financial assistance alongside European leadership and resources would help avoid a long-term breakdown in the global economy. "We are all in this together." "So anybody who can help Europe get out of the crisis is useful," he told the Financial Times in an interview on the sidelines of the World Economic Forum in Mumbai. "Asia may be shielded to some extent but it cannot be immune." "So if China and India can help, by all means." Europe's monetary union has been badly undermined by a sovereign debt crisis in past months. In recent days, Italy's borrowing costs have soared dangerously and the prime ministers of both Italy and Greece have resigned. The unfolding sovereign debt crisis in Europe has raised fears that it could push the global economy back into recession and prompted calls for leading emerging economies to band together to help the eurozone find a solution. Mr Nag predicted that any Asian support would be channelled through the IMF, but said bilateral assistance -- like buying the bonds of the EU's bail-out fund, the European financial stability facility -- offered greater bargaining power to Europe's Asian partners. Anand Sharma, India's minister of trade, said that "India will do whatever it can" to help the eurozone as its own economy was now suffering falling exports and a drying up of foreign capital inflows. "Nobody wants the eurozone to remain unstable and turbulent," he said. "We have monumental challenges and we have to sustain a high level of growth." "It is not an option, it is an imperative, because where do we find employment for tens of millions of our young men and women." Others argue that developing economies like India have no business helping wealthy Europeans when they face their own profound economic challenges. Ashutosh Varshney, a professor at Brown University in the US, said it would be politically very difficult to sell assistance to Europe to India's 1.2bn people, of whom as many as 800m live on about $2 a day or less. "Sometime they will find out that Greeks retire at the age of 50 and go on holiday to beaches and it won't go down well," he said. Lee Howell, the managing director of the World Economic Forum, likewise questioned why India's reserves should be used to keep Greece's numerous and well-paid public sector workers in jobs in poorly managed, loss-making utilities like the railways. Mr Nag said that the eurozone crisis threatened "significant knock-on effects" across Asia. The ADB's forecast of 7.5 per cent economic growth in Asia for 2011/12 now faced "risks on the downside" because of the threat from Europe. He said vulnerable emerging markets needed to make "contingency plans" to protect themselves from a downturn and significant capital outflows from their economies.
Dire warnings from Pentagon over potential defense cuts Defense Secretary Leon Panetta turned up the heat on Congress Monday, warning that looming automatic budget cuts would undermine national security and set off a financial chain reaction from the hallways of the Pentagon, to the battlefields of Afghanistan, to civilian assembly lines. The Pentagon already is digesting $450 billion of reductions over the next decade but now fears an additional $600 billion or more in cuts may be imminent if Congress cannot reach a deal on spending. "The impacts of these cuts would be devastating for the department," Panetta said in a letter to Sens. John McCain, R-Arizona, and Lindsey Graham, R-South Carolina. He said that congressional failure to reach a budget agreement and the resulting so-called sequestration would trigger 23% across-the-board reductions and a halt to many new projects. "Such a large cut, applied in this indiscriminate manner, would render most of our ship and construction projects unexecutable -- you cannot buy three quarters of a ship or a building -- and seriously damage other modernization efforts," Panetta wrote to the senators. "We would also be forced to separate many of our civilian personnel involuntarily and, because the reduction would be imposed so quickly, we would almost certainly have to furlough civilians in order to meet the target." "These changes would break faith with those who maintain our military and seriously damage readiness." The cuts would eventually hit combat troops, Panetta said. "While wartime funding in the Overseas Contingency Operations accounts is not directly affected by the sequester, war efforts would be adversely affected by the severe disruption in the base budgets," Panetta warned. "Contracting personnel would be cut, resulting in delays in the contracts and the contract oversight that support the war." "Payroll personnel would be cut, resulting in late payments to wartime vendors, and legal and policy support would be disrupted." The two senators had written Panetta 10 days ago, asking for details of the potential impact of the automatic cuts on the Defense Department. "The consequence of a sequester on the Defense Department would set off a swift decline of the United States as the world's leading military power." "We are staunchly opposed to this draconian action," the senators said in a joint statement Monday afternoon when they released Panetta's letter. "This is not an outcome that we can live with, and it is certainly not one that we should impose on ourselves." "The sequester is a threat to the national security interests of the United States, and it should not be allowed to occur." Whether the Panetta letter and the fresh warnings from Senators will increase pressure for a budget compromise or step up calls to exempt the Pentagon from cuts remains to be seen. Panetta has been increasingly outspoken about the possible cuts, although he came to the top Pentagon job with years of budget expertise himself in Congress and the White House and knowing that he was facing tough choices. At a news conference last week, the secretary of defense painted a bleak picture of what could lie ahead -- a military with a shell but no core. "It's a ship without sailors." "It's a brigade without bullets." "It's an air wing without enough trained pilots." "It's a paper tiger, an Army of barracks, buildings and bombs without enough trained soldiers able to accomplish the mission," Panetta said in his opening remarks at the Pentagon. "It's a force that suffers low morale, poor readiness and is unable to keep up with potential adversaries." "In effect, it invites aggression.." In an addendum to his letters to McCain and Graham, Panetta spelled out new specifics of how reductions "generate significant operational risks: delay response time to crises, conflicts, and disasters; severely limits our ability to be forward deployed and engaged around the world; and assumes unacceptable risk in future combat operations." And Panetta said that some of the biggest defense projects could face the ax, including those already being tested and some just in early stages of planning. That list included the F35 Joint Strike Fighter, a planned new bomber, the next-generation ballistic submarine, the new littoral combat ship and the new ground combat vehicle the Army and Marines need to replace the humvee. Halting further development and testing the F35 could generate some $80 billion in savings over 10 years but its supporters say it is a vital next step to upgrade and meet potential threats from China and other rivals.
How to spot a lie A glance at recent headlines indicates just how serious and pervasive deceit and lying are in daily life. Republican presidential candidate Herman Cain is busy trading allegations of sexual harassment with several women; each side accuses the other of lying. Administrators at Penn State have been charged with perjury for allegedly covering up reports that a retired football coach was sexually assaulting boys. Last week French president Nicolas Sarkozy was caught on an open microphone asserting to U.S. President Barack Obama that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is a liar. Lying has destroyed careers and convulsed countries. New York congressman and Internet flasher Anthony Weiner made a fool of himself issuing denials quickly contradicted by incontrovertible evidence. Former presidential candidate John Edwards has been charged with campaign finance violations connected to the cover-up of an extramarital affair. And then again, no one who lived through it will ever forget the media circus President Bill Clinton unleashed by lying during his second term in office about his sexual involvement with Monica Lewinsky. Tales of cheating on school and college tests are rife. There have been instances where teachers have given students test answers in order to make themselves look good on their performance reviews. Mentors who should be teaching the opposite are sending a message that lying and cheating are acceptable. How much deceit do we encounter? On a given day, studies show, you may be lied to anywhere from 10 to 200 times. Now granted, many of those are white lies. Another study showed that strangers lied three times within the first 10 minutes of meeting each other. Detecting lies, or "lie spotting," is an essential skill for everyone to acquire, for both personal and professional reasons. Far from being a parlor game similar to, say, charades, where the object is to exclaim, "Gotcha," deception detection is a serious branch of knowledge based on scientific data collected over the last six decades at prestigious universities conducting in-depth research projects, especially in psychology and physiology. One result of the research is that most old myths about lying have been debunked. Liars do look you in the eye. They do not always stutter, stammer, blush or fidget. Don't conclude from this that liars are hard to spot and difficult to unmask. A trained lie spotter can get to the truth by learning about statement structure, facial micro-expressions, question formation and timing. I spent several years surveying the scientific findings in the vast and ever emerging body of knowledge on deception, and it is clear that deception detection is a modern skill that is easy to learn and helpful in navigating our complex world -- especially if your professional responsibilities include hiring, interviewing, negotiating or managing. Good liars are skilled at reading others well, putting them at ease, managing their own emotions and intuitively sensing how others perceive them. We know from research that extroverts lie more than introverts, that men tell more "self-oriented" lies while women tell more "other-oriented" lies -- usually to protect someone's feelings -- that married people lie less frequently to their partners than unmarried people do (but the lies they do tell tend to be "whoppers"). We also know that if you are perceived as a wrongdoer, others will feel less guilt in lying to you. How do you tell if someone is lying? First, observe your subject's normal behavior. This is called "baselining." It helps provide a reference point for measuring changes later. Observe your subject's posture, laugh, vocal quality. You'd better know if someone normally taps their foot all the time so you don't make unjust accusations when you see foot-tapping in the middle of the meeting. Then look for clusters of deceptive verbal and nonverbal behaviors. Consider these clusters red flags, not proof of deception. Deceptive people might freeze their upper body when trying to remember their story, they might point their feet toward the door, lean toward an exit, shift their posture in significant ways or exhibit "post-interview relief" -- that exaggerated exhale of relief and shift in posture when all the hard questions are over. Interrogators often falsely signal that an interview is over just to look for that post-interview relief. Also, pay attention to your subject's language. Scott Peterson famously slipped and used the past tense while claiming his murdered wife was alive, launching a nationwide search for her. Deceptive individuals might also use distancing language: " I did not have sexual relations with that woman ... Miss Lewinsky" or repeat a hard question in its entirety. The most common verbal indicators are subtle. Someone might use lots of "qualifying language" when answering a hard question: " Well ... to tell you the truth ... as far as I know ... to the best of my knowledge." This renders the answer perceptual rather than factual and is often a red flag. There's no magic bullet for detecting lies, but developing skills to ferret out deception is possible. These skills will enhance anyone's chances of avoiding victimization by scam artists in their professional and personal lives.
Controversial Oil Pipeline Plan to Be Rerouted After Threat of Delayed U.S. Approval Days after the Obama administration threatened to delay approval of a planned oil pipeline from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico -- angering unions while appeasing environmentalists -- the company seeking to build the pipeline says it's willing to reroute the project to get it back on track. TransCanada said Monday evening it will move the planned pipeline out of the environmentally sensitive Sandhills area of Nebraska, and is confident the project will still win approval. The company announced the decision at a news conference at the Nebraska Capitol. TransCanada official Alex Pourbax says the company remains confident it will eventually get a pipeline approved, albeit with a different route. That comes after the State Department's announcement last week that it would delay a decision on a federal permit for the project until it studies new potential routes that avoid the Sandhills areas of Nebraska and the Ogallala aquifer, a vast underground water supply. "This is a real path forward," Rep. Lee Terry, a Republican from Nebraska, told Fox News. The new environmental review ordered by the State Department likely would push off any decision until 2013, after next year's elections, though officials denied that politics was involved in the decision. Obama, in a written statement last week, described the decision as the State Department's call, and expressed support for it. The 1,700-mile pipeline would extend from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico. It would carry 700,000 barrels per day from the province of Alberta to refineries in Texas. To do so would require it crossing six states. It is hated by environmentalists but loved by labor groups, who have banked on the estimated 20,000 jobs tied to the pipeline. But Nebraska lawmakers opposed to the plan are weighing legislation to force a move away from the Sand Hills region and Ogallala aquifer, a major source of drinking water and irrigation. The State Department's current Environmental Impact Study found the project would pose only limited adverse environmental impacts, but the energy industry source said the department's inspector general has ordered a separate probe of the review process, centering on two questions. One is whether a lobbyist hired by TransCanada, Paul Elliott, who was a campaign adviser to Hillary Clinton in 2008, represents a conflict of interest for the program. The other is whether a firm that was hired to conduct the original study was an inappropriate choice because it was tied to TransCanada.
Patti LaBelle Sued for Allegedly Causing Toddler to Vomit out of Fear A New York family claims that disco diva Patti LaBelle launched into a rampage in the lobby of their Manhattan building, terrifying their toddler daughter to the point where she threw up in fear. The "Lady Marmalade" singer's tirade frightened 18-month-old Genevieve Monk so badly that she suffered "personality changes, sleep disorder" and "increased fear of strangers," her family says in the Manhattan Supreme Court suit. It was Nov. 10 of last year when stagehand Kevin Monk, his kindergarten-teacher wife, Roseanna, and Genevieve were getting ready to go on a family trip. While Kevin Monk got the car, Roseanna Monk came down to the lobby of their Riverside Boulevard building with their luggage, carrying Genevieve. Roseanna Monk said she stopped near the door and put her daughter down for a moment. "Someone came up behind me and said, "Do you know what your daughter is doing?" I said "yes" and went to pick her up," she said. LaBelle angrily admonished the pregnant woman. "She said in an aggressive tone, "You shouldn't have left your daughter by the door,"" Roseanna Monk said. "I told her, "I have no interest in what you say or think.'" She became enraged and started using profanities -- the C-word and the F-word in a loud voice ... She had a bottle of water and started flicking water from the bottle on me. She said Genevieve got hysterical. "I said to this woman, "Look what you've done to my daughter,"" the child's mother said. LaBelle lunged at the mom -- who was still holding Genevieve -- and had to be restrained by her entourage and pulled out to a waiting car, Roseanna Monk said. The tot was crying so hard that she vomited, she added. Later, the family sent a note asking for an apology from LaBelle but got no response. LaBelle's lawyer and representatives did not return calls for comment. The suit seeks unspecified damages, but the family's lawyer, Sam Davis, said he took the case for free and that the family plans to donate any money it gets to a children's cancer charity. "The purpose is to hold Patti LaBelle responsible for her conduct," Davis said. "That kind of behavior is completely unacceptable, especially when aimed at a kindergarten teacher carrying an 18-month-old child."
