The democratic routine
Support for democracy in Latin America continues to edge up, as does backing for private enterprise.
Crime has become a bigger worry than unemployment.
And Brazil is seen as more influential than the United States across much of the region.
Those are some of the findings of the latest Latinobarómetro poll taken in 18 countries and published exclusively by The Economist.
Because the poll has been taken regularly since 1995, it tracks changes in attitude across the region.
Two related things stand out in the results of this year's poll, taken in September and early October.
The first is Latin America's fairly sunny mood.
The second is the increasing stability of attitudes towards democracy and its core institutions.
Support for democracy has risen noticeably in several countries on the Pacific rim of South America (see table 1).
For example in Peru, where economic growth has averaged 6% a year since 2002, support for democracy has risen from a low of 40% in 2005 to 61% this year.
It also rose in Mexico, where the economy has recovered after suffering a big drop in output last year.
But only around half of respondents in Mexico and Brazil, the region's two most populous countries, are convinced democrats, which drags down the regional average (see chart 2).
Some 44% of respondents across the region pronounced themselves satisfied with how their country's democracy works in practice, the same figure as last year but a big increase on the 25% in 2001 (chart 3).
Some 34% said they had confidence in their country's Congress and 45% in their government, the same as last year in both cases but up sharply from 2003 (17% and 24% respectively).
A decade ago economic woes in Latin America undermined support for democracy.
That it has held up during the world financial crisis is probably because many Latin American countries suffered only a brief recession and have enjoyed a strong recovery.
In addition, a stronger social safety net has helped to shield the poor.
(The United Nations' Economic Commission for Latin America reported this week that the proportion of Latin Americans living in poverty rose only marginally in 2009 and has fallen again this year, to 32%.)
But the mood varies widely from country to country (see chart 4).
Brazil's strong economic performance and the popularity of its outgoing president, Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, is reflected in a widely shared sense of progress.
That is scarcer in Mexico and Central America, where the recession was more severe and violent crime has worsened.
For only the second time since the polls began, more respondents across Latin America as a whole cite crime, rather than unemployment, as the most important problem facing their country (see chart 5).
Some 31% say that either they or a close relative have been victims of crime over the past year, but that is down from 38% last year and is the lowest figure since 1995.
A more robust economic performance is reflected in rising support for private enterprise and the market economy: some 71% of respondents across the region say that private enterprise is indispensable for development, up from 56% in 2007 (see chart 6).
Some 58% agree that the market economy is the only system that will make their country developed, up from 47% last year.
Interestingly, 62% of respondents in Venezuela hold that view (and 80% there back private enterprise) even though their left-wing president, Hugo Chávez, is expropriating many private companies.
Brazil is the country which exercises most leadership in the region, mentioned by 19% of respondents (up from 18% last year), followed by the United States (9%, unchanged from last year) and Venezuela (9%, down from 11% last year).
But the United States is seen as the most influential country by respondents in Mexico and much of Central America, whereas Venezuela enjoys that distinction in Ecuador, the Dominican Republic and Nicaragua.
A vote rubbished
Nobody expected Haiti's general election on November 28th to be perfect.
But it was far worse than the outsiders who are trying to help the stricken country feared.
It featured stuffed ballot boxes and repeat voting, ballot slips scattered in gutters, trashed polling stations and intimidation.
Polling stations opened hours late.
Many Haitians, including lots displaced by January's earthquake, roamed around trying to find out where to vote.
Some of them eventually gave up.
A dozen presidential candidates, including several presumed front-runners, cried fraud and called for the election's annulment.
Protests, some of them violent, flared across the country.
Nevertheless, Edmond Mulet, the United Nations' top official in Haiti, declared it "a fairly good election in many ways."
Observers from the Organisation of American States and the Caribbean Community said cautiously that they did "not believe these irregularities, serious as they were, necessarily invalidated the process."
In other words, the show goes on.
The electoral authority, which opponents claim is beholden to René Préval, the unpopular outgoing president and his candidate, Jude Célestin, is due to announce preliminary results on December 7th.
The expected run-off is scheduled for January.
All hope in the election is not lost.
The two leading opposition candidates, Michel Martelly, a rap musician, and Mirlande Manigat, a former first lady, have retreated from their initial call for the vote to be declared invalid.
But there may be trouble if Mr Célestin, who has little or no discernible support among voters, is declared by the electoral authority to have reached the run-off.
With a cholera epidemic raging, and more than 1m earthquake survivors still living in tents, there were fears that turnout would be low.
In the event, a lot of Haitians wanted to vote but were prevented from doing so by disorganisation.
Some 250,000 identity cards, required for voting, remained undistributed shortly before the election.
Much is at stake.
Aid donors see the election of a legitimate and popular government as an essential step in Haiti's reconstruction.
And so, it is clear, do Haitians themselves.
Tiptoeing to the centre
In the weeks since she was suddenly widowed, Cristina Fernández, Argentina's president, has benefited from a wave of public sympathy that has boosted her approval rating by 20 points, to over 50%, its highest level since she was elected in 2007.
Yet turning this into a successful campaign for a second term at an election next year may depend on whether or not the visibly grieving Ms Fernández abandons the intransigence of her late husband, predecessor and political partner, Néstor Kirchner.
And on that the signs are mixed.
Mr Kirchner, who continued to handle economic policy even after his wife succeeded him as president, was in the habit of drawing up budgets which underestimated tax revenues, economic growth and inflation.
That allowed the first couple to spend the extra revenues at will.
On paper Ms Fernández's government lost its majority in Congress last year.
But the opposition is divided, and it was thrown further into disarray by Mr Kirchner's death of a heart attack on October 27th.
Some dissident members of the ruling Peronist movement have rallied to Ms Fernández.
But after chaotic sessions (in which a parliamentarian punched another in the face, and others accused the government of bribery), Congress failed to approve the 2011 budget.
"I'm not going to argue," said the president.
The 2010 budget will now apply next year, giving the president even more room to spend at will.
The economy is overheating wildly: it is likely to grow by up to 9% this year.
The official inflation rate now stands at 11.1%, but many private estimates - and trade-union wage demands - put the figure close to 30%.
Mr Kirchner, who took office in 2003 when Argentina was scarred by economic collapse, made growth and poverty reduction, rather than controlling inflation, his priorities.
He refused to deal with the IMF, harassed the private sector and purged INDEC, the statistics agency, which proceeded to doctor official inflation statistics.
Might Ms Fernández now moderate these policies?
She has called for talks between private business and union leaders.
And her officials are saying that they want to limit wage increases next year to 18%.
The economy has been buoyed by high world prices for Argentina's farm exports.
But inflation has eroded the boost to growth provided by a big devaluation in 2002.
That may be why Ms Fernández is showing signs of wanting to restore Argentina's financial ties to the rest of the world.
Earlier this year the government struck a deal with bondholders who had refused an earlier forced restructuring of debt on which Argentina defaulted in 2001.
Now Ms Fernández seems to be edging towards an agreement with creditor governments grouped in the Paris Club, to which it owes some $6.7 billion.
The Kirchners always insisted this could not involve oversight by the IMF, as is customary.
But last month Amado Boudou, the economy minister, announced that the fund will provide "technical assistance" to design a new national consumer-price index, which looks like a prelude to cleaning up INDEC.
It is not clear whether Ms Fernández wants to remain in politics beyond the end of her term now that her husband is no longer at her side.
If she does, she needs to win the support of the middle class, much of which has tired of kirchnerismo.
By the time Argentines return from their summer holidays in March, the wave of sympathy for her will have ebbed.
If she wants to win another election she will have to decide whether or not quietly to repudiate many of her husband's policies.
Half a cheer for China
Taiwan's voters are inching towards a kind of closer union with the mainland.
What does Taiwan think of its big brother across the strait?
More than 7.5m voters turned out on November 27th, 70% of those eligible, to elect mayors and city councillors in five urban districts, in what is seen as a broad assessment of the president, Ma Ying-jeou.
Mr Ma himself has become a surrogate for feelings about the mainland, having forged groundbreaking business links, including a partial free-trade pact, in the biggest rearrangement of relations with China proper since 1949.
Mr Ma passed the test, but only just.
Although his Kuomintang party (KMT) ended up winning three of the five mayoralties, it failed to win a majority of the votes.
Instead, the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP), which has leant towards fuller independence for Taiwan, won nearly 50% of all votes to the KMT's 45%.
Had this been a presidential poll, Mr Ma would be in trouble.
Since he was elected two years ago his party's share of the vote has fallen by perhaps 8%.
For the first time, the DPP drew even with the KMT in the city councils.
The election saw most of the staples of Taiwanese elections, including rowdy campaign trucks and flag-waving mass rallies with skimpily clad dancing girls.
It even saw the obligatory mysterious assassination attempt.
Sean Lien, son of Lien Chan, the KMT's honorary chairman, was stumping for a KMT candidate on the eve of the election.
A man from the crowd shot the young Mr Lien clean through the face, wounding him and killing a bystander.
Bizarrely, it has not been determined whether the gunman intended to harm Mr Lien or to settle a dispute with the candidate.
Either way, says Tsai Ing-wen, the leader of the DPP, the shooting affected the election, casting suspicion on the DPP and driving voters towards the KMT.
Perhaps the only big winner from the campaign was China.
It was striking how the issue of the mainland itself was absent.
Instead candidates jousted over plans for public housing and job creation.
Taiwan usually enjoys its de facto independence and loathes China's military threat.
So, the KMT tends to avoid parading its ties to the government in Beijing.
But this time the DPP also refrained from whipping up anti-China sentiment.
It is responding to a new awareness that Chinese business is essential to Taiwan's economic survival.
Mr Ma, for his part, claimed confirmation that his China policy is acceptable to the Taiwanese majority.
The government in Beijing can be expected to continue supplying commercial sweeteners, in line with its strategy for luring Taiwan back to the fold.
China wasted no time sending a negotiator to Taipei to arrange for a summit on investment protection and medical co-operation.
Certainly, it would like to see political integration too, but first things first.
Better to wait till after the 2012 presidential election for that.
The DPP has anyway reinvented itself.
Two years ago it was at a low point: its former leader, Chen Shui-bian, had been sent to jail on charges of corruption.
President in 2000-08, he was a firebrand for explicit independence.
But under the leadership of Ms Tsai, a new generation of moderates has emerged and the DPP is working hard to attract professionals and youths.
Ms Tsai has been hailed as a DPP candidate for the presidency, as has Su Tseng-chang, who served under Mr Chen.
Their party is now doing its best to show that it too can engage with Beijing.
Ms Tsai announced plans for a think-tank to act as a point of contact between the DPP and China, provided their talks can be held without preconditions.
Ms Tsai tells the Taiwanese public that her party presents a "trustworthy alternative" to Mr Ma's hasty approach to China.
Mr Chen seems infuriated by the shift.
In a statement issued from his cell he said that the DPP's candidates would have fared better if they had insisted that Taiwan is a separate country.
He even ordered Mr Su, a pragmatist, not to run for the presidency.
Even without Mr Chen's interference, the DPP will struggle to choose between its potential candidates.
The KMT is due for soul-searching of its own.
Mr Ma's ratings have been poor, despite breakneck economic growth; KMT candidates have not wanted to campaign with him.
His unpopularity seems to be owing largely to unemployment and the widening gap between rich and poor.
A KMT spokesman says it will reshuffle its cabinet as well as its local branches.
The DPP's strong showing suggests that Taiwan's support for rapprochement is limited.
At the same time most Taiwanese see the economic integration with China as inevitable.
According to Antonio Chiang, a prominent columnist, "the point of no return has already passed."
Grammy nominations: Jazz singer Esperanza Spalding is a surprise pick in best new artist category
Perform at the request of a president, and people are bound to take notice.
Esperanza Spalding, the 26-year-old jazz bassist and singer hand-picked by President Obama to perform at his Nobel Peace Prize ceremony in 2009, marked one of the Grammys' surprises this year with a high-profile nomination in the best new artist category.
Considering that Spalding has been a celebrated figure on the jazz scene since her 2008 album, "Esperanza," the nomination is a bit of a head-scratcher, but it is consistent with the Grammys' rules of an artist not releasing more than three albums before the recording that "establishes the public identity of that artist."
Her ambitious 2010 album, "Chamber Music Society," certainly marked a step forward, and given her airily inviting vocal style and a deft hand with pop, funk and Latin influences, it's possible to draw at least a dotted line to Spalding from Norah Jones' runaway success in 2003, the closest equivalent to Grammy voters looking toward jazz's neighborhood in this category in recent years.
Elsewhere Grammy voters rightly honored the Vijay Iyer Trio's "Historicity" in the instrumental album category, an invigorating thrill-ride of a record that was a critical favorite last year.
Among those Iyer will be competing against include veteran saxophonist James Moody's "Moody 4B" and keyboardist John Beasley's "Positootly."
Trombone Shorty, a raucous New Orleans favorite and frequent guest on HBO's "Treme," was honored in the contemporary jazz category, which otherwise tilts heavily toward fusion with nods toward albums by Stanley Clarke, John McLaughlin and Jeff Lorber.
The wild, steampunk-informed Darcy James Argue's Secret Society earned some well-deserved recognition in the large ensemble category, competing against the Billy Childs Ensemble's rich chamber-jazz and the ever-adventurous Dave Holland, whose octet's live album "Pathways" was a fine example of the bassist's democratic hand as a bandleader.
Grammy Awards nominations: Michael Daugherty, Steve Mackey lead classical categories
The classical nominations for the 53rd annual Grammy Awards feature a sprawling mix of musicians and composers from around the world.
Leading the nominations are Michael Daugherty's "Deus Ex Machina," for piano and orchestra, with five nods, and Steve Mackey's "Dreamhouse," an eclectic orchestral work, with three nods.
Among the nominees with ties to Southern California is Estonian composer Arvo Pärt for his Symphony No. 4, "Los Angeles," a piece that was commissioned by the Los Angeles Philharmonic and debuted at Walt Disney Concert Hall in 2009.
L.A.-based composer Avner Dorman's Mandolin Concerto is also up for an award.
Classical nominations are spread over 13 categories covering orchestral, operatic, choral and solo recordings.
A category for classical producer of the year features five nominees - Blanton Alspaugh, David Frost, Tim Handley, Marina and Victor Ledin and James Mallinson.
The nominations for classical album are Bruckner's Symphonies No. 3 and 4 from the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra; Daugherty's "Deus Ex Machina" and "Metropolis Symphony" from the Nashville Symphony Orchestra; Steven Mackey's "Dreamhouse" from the Boston Modern Orchestra Project and Synergy Vocals; "Sacrificium - the Art of the Castrati" featuring various artists; and Verdi's "Requiem" from the Chicago Symphony Orchestra and Chorus.
In the opera category, the nominees are Berg's "Lulu" from the Orchestra of the Royal Opera House; Adolf Hasse's "Marc Antonio e Cleopatra" from Ars Lyrica Houston; Kaija Saariaho's "L'Amour de Loin" from Deutsches Symphonie-Orchester Berlin; Rodion Shchedrin's "The Enchanted Wanderer" from the Orchestra and Chorus of the Mariinsky Theatre; and Arthur Sullivan's "Ivanhoe" from the BBC National Orchestra of Wales.
Composers who are up for Grammys for contemporary composition include Pärt for Symphony No. 4, Daugherty for "Deus Ex Machina," Hans Werner Henze for "Appassionatamente Plus," Magnus Lindberg for "Graffiti" and Shchedrin for "The Enchanted Wanderer."
Pärt's Symphony No. 4 had its premiere at Disney Hall in January 2009 in a performance that was recorded by the L.A. Philharmonic, conducted by Esa-Pekka Salonen.
The approximately 30-minute piece is dubbed "Los Angeles" and is dedicated to former oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky, who is imprisoned in Russia.
Dorman's "Mandolin Concerto" was nominated for instrumental soloist performance with orchestra.
The L.A. composer said that he wrote the 15-minute piece specifically for mandolin performer Avi Avital, who performed the concerto with the New York-based Metropolis Ensemble.
"I wrote it using Middle Eastern sounds and a lot of North African scales and rhythms," said Dorman in a phone interview.
Conductor Pierre Boulez, 85, received a nomination in the category of orchestral performance, for leading the Chicago Symphony in a recording of works by Stravinsky.
Instrumental soloists who received nominations include pianists Nelson Freire and Marc-André Hamelin; organist Paul Jacobs; violinist Julia Fischer; and harpist Sarah Schuster Ericsson.
Vocal-soloist nominees were all female this year and included Anne Sofie Von Otter, Cecilia Bartoli, Lucia Duchonová, Vivica Genaux and Measha Brueggergosman.
In the classical crossover category, soprano Jessye Norman received a nomination for her recording "Roots - My Life, My Song."
Proposed Temecula mosque wins planning commission approval
A proposed mosque in Temecula has won the unanimous support of the local planning commission following more than five hours of often heated public testimony.
Critics assailed the project as promoting both terrorism and traffic tie-ups.
But commissioners ruled Wednesday night the new religious center complied with local laws and would be aesthetically impressive.
"Many good people came to support it - Christians, Jews, Bahais, you name it," said Hadi Nael, chair of the Islamic Center of Temecula Valley, speaking Thursday morning.
"I'm proud of that as an American citizen."
"It shows that justice prevails."
"The opposition is very minimal," he added.
"They just have very loud voices."
"We have beautiful people in this valley."
The meeting began at 6 p.m. and lasted until nearly midnight with most of the time taken up with people speaking for or against the center, about evenly divided, according to the Press-Enterprise.
The debate continued on the newspaper's website.
"There is no more America," wrote one commenter.
"It is another Planet of the Apes with Miss Liberty dead in the sand."
"America has fallen."
Planned Islamic centers also have sparked protests in other parts of the country, including near ground zero, the site of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks in New York City.
In the Temecula Valley, Imam Mahmoud Harmoush has denounced violence.
His congregation of about 135 families has co-existed without incident in Riverside County for years but wanted a larger and better space than the warehouse it rented on a property shared with a manufacturer of water-filtration systems.
The new 24,943-square-foot mosque with Mediterranean-style architecture would include two minarets and rise as tall as 43 feet.
It would occupy a 4.32-acre site on Nicolas Road about two miles east of Chaparral High School.
Opponents can still appeal the project to the City Council.
Arsenic-tolerant microbe raises possibility of new types of life on Earth, or elsewhere
The discovery of a strange bacteria that can use arsenic as one of its nutrients widens the scope for finding new forms of life on Earth and possibly beyond.
While researchers discovered the unusual bacteria here on Earth, they say it shows that life has possibilities beyond the major elements that have been considered essential.
"This organism has dual capability."
"It can grow with either phosphorous or arsenic."
"That makes it very peculiar, though it falls short of being some form of truly 'alien' life," commented Paul C. W. Davies of Arizona State University, a co-author of the report appearing in Thursday's online edition of the journal Science.
Six major elements have long been considered essential for life - carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, phosphorus and sulfur.
But the researchers found that the bacteria, discovered in Mono Lake, Calif., is able to continue to grow after substituting arsenic for phosphorous.
"It makes you wonder what else is possible," said Ariel D. Anbar of Arizona State University, a co-author of the report.
The find is important in the search for life beyond Earth because researchers need to be able to recognize life, to know what life looks like, Anbar said.
The study focuses on a microbe found on Earth.
However, the announcement of a news conference to discuss it, which did not disclose details of the find, generated widespread speculation on the Internet that the report would disclose the discovery of extraterrestrial life.
It didn't.
The discovery "does show that in other planetary environments organisms might be able to use other elements to drive biochemistry and that the 'standard' set of elements we think are absolutely necessary for life might not be so fixed," commented Charles Cockell, professor at the Planetary and Space Sciences Research Institute, Open University, in Milton Keynes, United Kingdom.
Cockell was not part of the research team.
"This work is novel because it shows the substitution of one element for another in fundamental biochemistry and biochemical structure," added Cockell.
It wasn't a chance discovery.
Felisa Wolfe-Simon of NASA's Astrobiology Institute, who led the study, targeted Mono Lake because it has high arsenic levels.
Arsenic and phosphorous are chemically similar, so she speculated that a microbe exposed to both might be able to substitute one for the other.
"Arsenic is toxic mainly because its chemical behavior is so similar to that of phosphorus."
"As a result, organisms have a hard time telling these elements apart."
"But arsenic is different enough that it doesn't work as well as phosphorus, so it gets in there and sort of gums up the works of our biochemical machinery," explained Anbar.
The researchers collected the bacteria known as GFAJ-1 and exposed it to increasing concentrations of arsenic, which it was able to adapt to and grow.
The microbe does grow better on phosphorous, but showing that it can live with arsenic instead raises the possibility that a life form using arsenic could occur naturally, either elsewhere on Earth or on another planet or moon where arsenic is more common.
Jamie S. Foster, an assistant professor of microbiology at the University of Florida, said the idea that arsenic could be substituted for phosphorous isn't new, but there has never been example where it was shown to work.
Arsenic was more common in the early times on Earth, she said, so researchers have speculated that early life forms might have used it.
"It does suggest that that there could be other ways to form life, not just how life formed on early Earth," said Foster, who was not part of Wolfe-Simon's research team.
The research was supported by NASA, the Department of Energy and the National Institutes of Health.
Remaining stolen show dogs found in Compton
The remaining two of four show dogs stolen from outside a Bellflower motel have been found, Los Angeles County Sheriff's officials said Thursday.
The four show dogs - two Akitas and two Pembroke Welsh corgis - vanished Tuesday when someone stole the 2006 Chevrolet Express van they had spent the night in outside a Bellflower Motel 6, authorities said.
Two of the canines were recovered Wednesday afternoon, and the remaining two were found late Wednesday evening, said to Steve Whitmore, a spokesman for the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department.
"The good news is that the dogs are fine," said Whitmore.
"They are in good condition."
"They have been returned to their rightful owners."
Whitmore declined to say precisely where the dogs were found, in what neighborhood, and the circumstances surrounding their discovery.
"There is an investigation going on."
"We don't want to say," Whitmore said.
"We are following leads."
The dogs owners, Kristina Rickard and David Peek, could not be reached for comment Thursday.
They were reunited with their two Akitas at a county-run animal shelter in Downey on Wednesday afternoon.
Sheriff's deputies found the van and the two dogs separately in Compton.
The Akitas - Trace, a 3-year-old male, and Didi, a 10-month-old female - were unharmed, authorities said.
But Bunny and Peter, the corgis Rickard and Peek planned to show at area competitions this week on behalf of the dogs' Japanese owners, remained missing until their discovering late Wednesday.
Peek and Rickard, who live in Redding, are in town for the AKC/Eukanuba National Championship in Long Beach this weekend, where they planned to show Trace.
The other dogs were expected to compete in other competitions scheduled in the days before the AKC/Eukanuba show, Peek told The Times on Wednesday.
Southern California is one stop on the couple's nearly month-long tour of dog shows.
On Monday night, Peek and Rickard checked into the motel.
They often stay in motels and park their van right outside their room window.
They brought three other dogs - a Boxer puppy, a Parson Russell terrier and a Brittany - which stayed with them in the motel room.
But they left the thick-furred Akitas and corgis in the van where it would be cooler.
They opened the windows a bit, so the dogs could get fresh air.
Peek and Rickard reported the van stolen at 6 a.m. Tuesday.
Peek had said they would offer a reward to anyone who could lead them to the corgis, which are implanted with microchips to identify them.
It was unclear Thursday whether an award would be given.
Lion ready to roar again as MGM restructuring gets final court go-ahead
After 18 months of turmoil and uncertainty, MGM has finally gotten a green light to start anew.
A New York federal bankruptcy judge on Thursday officially blessed the "pre-packaged" plan by creditors to wipe out about $5 billion in debt, clearing the way for the 86-year-old entertainment company to focus its efforts on producing and releasing movies and television shows.
With Thursday's ruling that the plan meets the requirements of the U.S. bankruptcy code, no more legal obstacles remain for MGM to relaunch under Spyglass Entertainment founders Gary Barber and Roger Birnbaum, who will become chief executives of what will be a slimmed-down studio.
The staff will drop to about 320 from over 400.
MGM will not actually emerge from Chapter 11 until JPMorgan Chase closes a planned $500-million loan facility to fund the new MGM's operations and productions.
It is currently being syndicated by the investment bank - which is itself kicking in $75 million - and is expected to be funded by mid-December.
The studio's restructuring process began in May 2009, when investment bank Moelis & Co. was hired to advise management on how to fix its finances as it was struggling to afford interest payments of $300 million per year.
That August, Chief Executive Harry Sloan was replaced by Stephen Cooper, a former CEO of Enron and a turnaround expert known for his work at Krispy Kreme Doughnuts.
Moelis' and Cooper's attempts to resolve MGM's financial woes and satisfy the studio's 140-plus creditors took much longer than expected.
After several months of discussions, the parties agreed in late 2009 to put the company up for sale.
However, the auction attracted few bidders and none willing to pay the $2 billion-plus that creditors were seeking.
By the spring of this year, it was back to the drawing board as the MGM team began working on a restructuring plan that, after months of debate and internal disagreements, was finally endorsed by creditors in late October.
When MGM officially emerges from bankruptcy in the coming weeks, Moelis and Cooper's firms will receive multimillion-dollar bonuses for their work.
Moelis & Co., which has already received $1.2 million, will get a $9.5-million payment.
Cooper's firms, which have been collecting $375,000 per month for their services running the company, will receive a $4-million "success fee."
Barber and Birnbaum plan to restart production at MGM, which released only one movie this year, and put together an annual slate of seven or eight films that will come out starting in 2012.
They also plan to co-finance two movies based on "The Hobbit," along with Warner Bros.
The studio needs to close a separate loan of between $265 million and $275 million to fund its portion of those two movies, which are to be directed by Peter Jackson.
Investor Carl Icahn, who owns about 18% of MGM's debt, had been seeking to arrange a merger of the studio with Lions Gate Entertainment, in which he is the largest shareholder.
However, recent talks between the two companies have not resulted in a deal.
Tech Toys to Keep Your Gift Budget in Balance
While the leading candidate for this year's most marvelous toy is the iPad, followed by, perhaps, a Microsoft Kinect video game system, both can put a significant dent in your gift budget.
Consider that for the price of one iPad, you can buy five $99 BMX bicycles, and that one Kinect game costs the same as 10 classic beaded jump ropes, or about 48 cans of Play-Doh.
But there are ways to keep your gift budget in balance.
I recently visited three national toy sellers - a Wal-Mart, a Toys "R" Us and a BJ's Wholesale Club - to see what electronic toys I could buy for less than $80.
It was immediately clear that Moore's Law has been at work; this year's technology toy is likely to have more power, while costing the same if not a bit less compared with last year's.
In addition, while there are generally fewer new toys with associated Web sites, two of the most well known of this type, Webkinz and Club Penguin, have more offerings.
And button-cell powered toys are increasing, as well as toys with rechargable batteries.
Here are some recommendations.
(All prices are from Toys "R" Us, except if otherwise noted.)
Sing-a-ma-jigs (Mattel, $13, for ages 3 and up) are guinea pig-sized plush toys that sing a note when you squeeze their bellies.
One squeeze equals one note, and a second squeeze starts building a song.
If you buy more than one, they'll sing in harmony.
Caution: Once you start squeezing, you can't stop.
For singing combined with dancing, Dance Star Mickey (Fisher-Price, $60, for ages 2 and up) is the best choice.
Borrowing on last year's Elmo Live technology, the 14-inch animatronic doll plays turn-taking games like Simon Says, and can moon walk, thanks to his innovative hinged feet with locking wheels.
Children testing the toy used Mickey as a dance instructor although their parents complained about the lack of a volume control.
If you're a child of the '80s, you may recall Alphie, one of the first computerized educational toys.
He's back, (Hasbro/Playskool, $40, for ages 3 and up), with a backpack full of quiz cards designed to turn a car ride into a session with a self-correcting, wisecracking workbook.
If you're leery of handing your child your smartphone, here are three stand-alone alternatives.
VTech's MobiGo ($60, for ages 3 to 8) is the cheapest and easiest to use, featuring a qwerty keyboard, although the games don't teach as effectively as the Leapster Explorer ($70, for ages 3 to 12), Leapfrog's first major overhaul of the Leapster line, with a newer, brighter screen.
Neither version is compatible with older cartridges.
Fisher-Price's iXL ($90, for ages 3 to 7) uses an iTunes-like system to deliver games and e-books, and has an SD card slot that makes it possible to display family photos.
Finally, Scrabble Flash ($30, Hasbro, for ages 8 and up) is a set of five blocks just larger than a book of matches, each with its own LED screen.
The goal is to make words by placing the blocks in a row before time runs out; it's great for an impromptu spelling contest.
Increasingly, toys have some sort of online connection.
Based on their presence in toy stores alone, the two largest are Webkinz and Club Penguin.
To buy your child an online pet in Club Penguin, for example, you can get a Disney Club Penguin 2" Mix 'N Match Figure Pack, $5, for ages 6 to 12) that includes a coin with a hidden code.
When you redeem the code online, your child is given enough credits in the Club Penguin store for any two items.
These might include roller skates or a pet Puffle toy.
Slightly larger than the bristle-end of your toothbrush, Hexbug Nano ($10, for ages 5 and up) is the latest in a line of button-cell powered micro-robots.
The faux bug moves quickly on 12 vibrating silicon legs, in random directions.
It is fun to make a maze out of blocks to see if it can find its way through.
It's durable, too.
Ours was able to drop off the kitchen table and even spent some time inside our dog's mouth.
Bringing a Softer Side to Policing in China
Like an urban drill sergeant, Tang Shenbin paced on a city square, sternly inspecting his nervous charges, issuing sotto voce commands with military authority.
He wanted the female members of chengguan - China's burly enforcers of urban order, feared and despised for their capricious crackdowns and penchant for violence - to convey a certain impression to a clutch of onlookers.
"Stand straight!"
"Look sharp!"
Show them, he whispered, "what pretty girls are like!"
Four barely-past-teenage girls in white gloves and identical olive jackets and pants snapped to attention.
Four pairs of black pumps lined up ruler-straight.
Four prim hats perched perfectly atop hair bound in blue and white striped bows.
"Personally, I think they are average-looking," Mr. Tang said, dismissively.
"Models are pretty."
More than one government has tried to brush up the image of China's urban inspectors.
One city mandated that all new recruits have a college degree.
Guangdong Province changed the gray-green uniforms to a supposedly more inviting blue.
Wuhan, in central China, substituted stare-downs for strong-arming: in 2009, one report stated, 50 officers encircled a wayward snack cart, glowering steadily for a half hour until the peddler packed up and left.
Xindu, an urban district of 680,000 in Chengdu, has chosen major image surgery.
Since 2003, the district has supplemented its urban street police with 13 women, specifically chosen for their looks, shapeliness and youth.
The idea is to give the rough-hewn police a softer, feminine side.
Unfortunately, even Scarlett Johansson might struggle to raise China's subterranean regard for these city squads.
And for good reason, critics would argue.
Unlike the police, these officers are authorized only to enforce city ordinances by imposing fines and other administrative penalties.
But the Chinese news media routinely portray a different reality.
In January 2008, Hubei Province inspectors beat a bystander to death after he used his cellphone to film them breaking up a protest against a waste dump.
Last year, a training manual for Beijing inspectors, pilfered and posted online, described how to effectively thrash offenders without drawing blood.
This year, a Shanghai watermelon peddler was left brain-damaged after a scuffle with five officers.
One violence-soaked video game, available for download online, features Chinese-trained inspectors who assault street vendors.
"Chengguan has scarred the government," China Daily, a national publication, lamented last year after yet another controversy over tactics.
The paper demanded a "truly thorough clean-up."
Skeptics say the approach here falls far short of that.
After the district advertised for eight new female recruits in October, an editorial in The Beijing Evening News questioned whether the women had actual duties or were simply scenic diversions.
The answer appears to be a little of both.
The district's advertisement called for female applicants 18 to 22 years old, with a good figure and "the five facial features in proper order."
They should be above-average height - taller than 1.6 meters or 5 feet, 2 ½ inches.
Retirement at age 26 is mandatory.
Officials said the job was physically too arduous for women over 25.
"Their image is the important thing," one unnamed district official told Rednet.com, a quasi-governmental Web site.
"First, the candidates' external qualities will determine if they make the cut, such as height, weight, facial features, etc."
Next comes temperament and "inner qualities."
Female chengguan are like flower vases, he said, adding, "Besides being vases, they will have other responsibilities."
Zheng Lihua, the deputy director of the district's city management bureau, is not eager to endorse that description.
But he noted that height requirements were standard in many Chinese job advertisements for both sexes.
So is the demand for orderly facial features.
Whether that means good-looking is a matter of debate among Chinese.
Certainly, the disabled or disfigured need not apply.
"We can't let a lame person or a hunchback come to serve here," Mr. Zheng said.
"His image would not be good."
Liu Yi, who patrols the Baoguang Square near a monastery, is 22, apple-cheeked with a finely curved mouth.
She does not consider the stress on her appearance to be sexist, she said.
"Do you think I look sexy in this uniform?" she asked with a wry look.
Said her dimpled co-worker, 21-year-old Xu Yang, "Our job is to present the city's image."
They do not object to their limited tenure either, they said, because they harbor career ambitions greater than simply shooing vendors into the alleyways where they are supposed to confine their business.
Every morning, the squad faces off against a dozen or so peddlers who dart around on foot or bicycle, trying to sell as many buns or bowls of tofu as possible before they are run off.
"Master Wang, you have to leave."
"We have told you many times!" said Ms. Xu as one vendor fled on foot, temporarily deserting his bicycle-drawn cart of noodle-fixings.
The officers describe their duties as more monotonous than strenuous.
"It is pretty much the same every day," said Huang Jing, 20, who studies marketing in her off hours.
"Very routine."
One reason is that female officers lack the power of their male counterparts to confiscate vendors' goods.
They can only threaten to report violators to their male supervisors.
That tends to shield them from the sudden public displays of animosity against officialdom that are common throughout China.
This year hundreds of citizens in Kunming, the Yunnan provincial capital, rioted after false rumors spread that chengguan officers had killed a vendor.
More than a dozen police or chengguan officers were injured in the nighttime episode; 14 government vehicles were overturned or set on fire.
Xindu has so far escaped such violence.
But calm is hardly guaranteed.
Just two blocks from placid Baoguang Square, where the female officers patrolled that morning, more than 50 people gathered on a street corner.
Officers had confiscated a motorcycle that was being repaired on the sidewalk instead of inside a shop, as regulations require.
The bike's owner was crying foul.
A 15-minute standoff ensued before the officers, grim-faced, elbowed their way to their vehicles and sped off with the motorcycle and its owner.
Li Xuedong, 40, a coordinator attached to the male squad, remained behind, his white badge flipped over to conceal his name.
Like the female officers, the coordinators - men age 40 or over - play a purely supportive role.
Unlike them, they are not schooled in maintaining a polished image.
"Sometimes we fight verbally."
"Sometimes we fight physically," Mr. Li said matter-of-factly.
"Most of the time it is the public who starts it."
Prosecutors won't charge Senator Ensign
Justice Department prosecutors have cleared Senator John Ensign of criminal allegations arising from his affair with a former campaign aide and his efforts to secure lobbying work for the woman's husband, the senator's lawyers announced Wednesday.
The decision ends the most serious legal threat facing Mr. Ensign, the Nevada Republican who was considered a possible Republican presidential candidate in 2012 until the scandal over his affair made national headlines last year and damaged his career.
Mr. Ensign's office said he was "certainly pleased" by the decision, which followed a yearlong investigation.
The senator could still face disciplinary action by the Senate ethics committee.
Mr. Ensign's lawyers said the Justice Department had "informed us that Senator Ensign is no longer a target of its investigation and that it has no plans to bring any charges against him in this matter."
The Justice Department declined to comment on the case.
The announcement came as something of a surprise to many ethics lawyers outside the Justice Department, who said there appeared to be significant evidence to indicate that Mr. Ensign may have conspired to violate a criminal ban on federal lobbying.
Interviews, e-mail and other documents first disclosed in October 2009 in The New York Times indicated that Mr. Ensign had helped Douglas Hampton, who was one of his aides, secure lucrative lobbying work to win the silence of Mr. Hampton and his wife, Cynthia, about the senator's affair with her.
Mrs. Hampton once served as treasurer of an Ensign campaign.
Mr. Ensign contacted a number of political backers to find work for Mr. Hampton and then advocated on their behalf after they had hired Mr. Hampton to lobby for them, according to the documents and interviews.
Because Mr. Hampton had recently been an aide to Mr. Ensign, he was barred by law from lobbying his former employer or the Senate as a whole for a year.
Ethics experts said the unusual arrangement between Mr. Ensign and Mr. Hampton, who were close friends before the affair, appeared at odds with the so-called revolving door lobbying ban.
From the evidence that has been made public, "there appeared to be a prima facie case of a conspiracy to violate, and substantial violation of the revolving door statute," said Stanley Brand, a Washington lawyer who specializes in defending clients investigated by the government.
While Justice Department officials declined to explain the reasoning behind the decision in the Ensign case, Mr. Brand and other ethics lawyers said the department appeared wary of taking on political prosecutions after a number of high-profile setbacks for its public integrity section, including the decision last year to drop the prosecution against former Senator Ted Stevens amid charges of prosecutorial misconduct.
Federal prosecutors "are clearly gun shy," said Melanie Sloan, the executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, an advocacy group that brought several complaints against Mr. Ensign in the case.
"This basically says high-ranking government officials can now assume the laws don't apply to them," she added.
Paul Coggins, Mr. Ensign's lead lawyer, said in an interview that he received a phone call from a Justice Department prosecutor on Monday and a follow-up the next day, telling him that the department was not seeking charges against his client.
Mr. Ensign's defense team had been cooperating with prosecutors in trying to persuade them that the senator, as his office reiterated in a statement Wednesday, "acted in accordance with the law."
Mr. Coggins declined to spell out the legal arguments he made to prosecutors.
"I'm not comfortable going into the details of my discussions with the Justice Department except to say that we think they made the right decision," he said.
Last month, the Federal Election Commission decided to drop an investigation into a separate complaint by the ethics group alleging that a $96,000 payment from Mr. Ensign's parents to the Hamptons violated federal election law.
The election commission said it did not have enough evidence to prove the money was anything except a gift.
One company for which Mr. Ensign helped Mr. Hampton find lobbying work was NV Energy, a major Nevada company that had long supported the senator.
One e-mail sent in December 2008 showed that after the company brought Mr. Hampton on as a lobbyist, Mr. Ensign's chief of staff, John Lopez, communicated with Mr. Hampton and told him that he was "pounding" the Interior Department over an issue in dispute.
Mr. Ensign also attended a lunch with Mr. Hampton and another Nevada client, Allegiant Air, and called the transportation secretary to set up a meeting on the airline's behalf after it had hired Mr. Hampton to do lobbying work.
When news of the affair first surfaced last year, Mr. Ensign apologized to his constituents and resigned his position as the fourth-ranking Republican leader in the Senate.
After keeping a low profile for many months, Mr. Ensign told reporters two weeks ago that he planned to run for a third term in the Senate.
In announcing that Mr. Ensign was no longer the target of a criminal investigation, his spokeswoman, Jennifer Cooper, said the senator hoped the ethics committee would quickly follow the Justice Department's lead and end its inquiry.
"Senator Ensign looks forward to continuing his hard work on behalf of the people of Nevada," she said.
Cheshire Appeal Will Point to Twitter
There were half a dozen of them typing away in the courtroom rows.
Minute by minute, they sent out reports of gruesome testimony via Twitter.
In the end, the defense says, there were more than 140,000 Twitter messages about the trial that dealt with rape and children tied to their beds in a house that was set ablaze.
On Thursday, the widely followed trial of Steven J. Hayes, who was convicted of killing three members of a Cheshire, Conn., family, is set to come to an official end with the judge's imposition of the death sentence voted for by the jury.
But lawyers for Mr. Hayes have already made court filings that sketch out appeals arguments that are likely to occupy the courts for years.
One of the most provocative is that the intense reporting on the trial - including mainstream reporters' extensive use of Twitter - created a "circus atmosphere" and such widespread, instant saturation with inflammatory details that the jury was improperly swayed by public passions.
The claim could force appeals judges to grapple with the question of whether new technology requires new courtroom rules.
"As I experienced it during this trial, I think there's a real danger that the inclusion of new technology in the courtroom is affecting an individual's fair-trial rights," said Thomas J. Ullmann, Mr. Hayes's chief defense lawyer.
The trial judge, Jon C. Blue of State Superior Court, tersely rejected the claims in a ruling last week, saying that the news media were "carefully controlled" and that there was no evidence the jury was driven by passion.
But that is not likely to be the last word on the issue.
For decades, appeals courts have recognized that coverage of notorious cases can raise questions about a trial's fairness.
In a landmark 1966 ruling, the United States Supreme Court overturned the conviction of a Cleveland osteopath, Dr. Sam Sheppard, for the murder of his wife, saying in its decision, Sheppard v. Maxwell, that there was a "carnival atmosphere at trial" because of the news media.
The crime is believed by some to have been the inspiration for the television show and the movie "The Fugitive."
Some lawyers said appeals courts reviewing Mr. Hayes's conviction half a century later might be intrigued by the argument that new rules could be necessary to govern ways of communicating from courtrooms unimagined at the time of Dr. Sheppard's case.
"There is a general reason for concern about the impact of the new media" in high-profile trials, said John J. Donohue III, a Stanford Law School professor who studied the Connecticut death penalty and wrote a report that said it was arbitrarily enforced.
Professor Donohue said some appeals judges might be intrigued by the idea that limiting instant communication from courtrooms might make trials fairer.
The Twitter issue is just one of many outlined by Mr. Hayes's lawyers that are likely to be argued for years, delaying an execution.
The defense lawyers also claim, for example, that Mr. Hayes may have been prejudiced when Judge Blue declined to allow them to test potential jurors' reactions by showing them grisly crime-scene photographs during jury selection.
Some of the jurors have said they were horrified by the photographs of the victims, Jennifer Hawke-Petit, 48, and her daughters, Hayley, 17, and Michaela, 11.
The defense lawyers say they will also challenge the constitutionality of the death penalty and argue that the judge wrongly removed a juror who had been critical of prosecutors and that he improperly added pressure for a verdict by his unusual decision to direct the jury to deliberate over a weekend.
The jurors were not sequestered.
But their arguments about the effect of the intense coverage of the trial may draw the most interest.
They noted in a challenge to the verdict filed last month that the case dominated the news in Connecticut and was discussed during the election campaign by candidates for governor and the United States Senate.
They argued that the news media continually fanned the flames of emotion about the case.
"The daily crush of media tweets, cameras and reporters outside the courthouse," the lawyers wrote, "was unlike anything ever seen here in New Haven and maybe statewide."
Their focus on the Twitter coverage is controversial.
In interviews, some journalists said the claim that instant news was more incendiary than reports delivered more slowly was a Luddite view that would make poor court policy governing coverage of future trials.
But some lawyers said appeals courts were often attracted to arguments that social and technological changes required adaptation by the courts.
Mr. Hayes's lawyers are pressing that claim.
In their filing, they referred to the Supreme Court's 1966 decision overturning Dr. Sheppard's conviction because of the trial coverage and made it clear they would claim that the new media required new rules.
"This case," they wrote, "represents the Sheppard v. Maxwell of the 21st century."
Can civility bridge the divide?
After a campaign notable for invective and negativity, a modicum of civility has broken out in Washington this week.
Is it a harbinger of genuine bipartisan cooperation ahead or an illusory moment before a quick return to partisan combat in the capital?
Tuesday's meeting between President Obama and congressional leaders produced no breakthroughs on the big issues that must be dealt with during the lame-duck session.
But by all accounts, it was at least a polite discussion of the two sides' differences as well as a recognition of their shared responsibilities to govern, rather than another empty episode of partisan point scoring.
Wednesday's public meeting of the president's deficit commission was equally civilized, despite the policy differences that remain among the members.
It seems clear that close interaction over a period of months produced a mutual respect that transcends the ideological gulf that still separates the members.
That's hardly enough to declare that a new era of cooperation has arrived.
Both sides are now in a period of testing - probing one another for signs of cooperativeness and compromise while trying to evaluate the limits of public opinion and voters' patience for renewed partisan warfare.
Which is why the meeting on Tuesday and the participants' reviews of it afterward were done with a minimum of demands or accusations.
The philosophical differences between Obama and the Republicans are too large and too deeply held to suggest any quick change in the climate that existed during the past two years.
Whether the issue is taxes, spending, health care or entitlements, the two sides remain miles apart.
Still, the November election has tempered Washington, at least in the short term.
"There's no question that tonally things have changed," said Pete Wehner, a Bush administration official now with the Ethics and Public Policy Center.
"Those are inevitable after elections.
Elections arouse partisan passions, and then they die down.
That is good."
On some issues, particularly those on the agenda for the lame-duck session, Republicans and Democrats have little choice but to find a solution.
The Bush tax cuts expire at the end of the year, and nobody favors that.
Both sides want to find a way to preserve some or all of them, permanently or temporarily.
Similarly, compromise is likely on extending unemployment benefits, if only because Republicans can't afford to look like they favor tax cuts for the wealthy while denying jobless workers unemployment compensation.
After Tuesday's meeting at the White House, there is greater optimism for a possible deal on these issues during the lame duck session, along with ratification of the New START pact.
But William Galston of the Brookings Institution cautions that successful cooperation on the pressing issues of the lame-duck session will not necessarily lead to continued bipartisanship when the new 112th Congress convenes in January.
Instead, he said, a period of disagreement is likely, even inevitable.
"After things that have to get done get done, the psychology in the short term will revert to one of confrontation," he said.
Wehner, too, expressed skepticism - which is widely shared - that civility will lead to real cooperation.
"I view most of what happens between now and 2012 as an undercard, or shadow boxing, to the main event in 2012," he said.
The reasons have much to do with the makeup of the new Republican majority in the House and the tea party voters who were instrumental in creating it.
However mindful Republican leaders are of the dangers of overplaying their hand, they know they must try to live up to their promises to cut government spending and repeal the new health-care law.
Those partisan lines are already clear in the initial reactions to the deficit commission recommendations, which include reforming the tax code and raising some taxes, raising the retirement age and cutting spending.
Co-chairs Alan Simpson and Erskine Bowles have taken on one of the most difficult jobs in Washington and have, in their own estimation, forced the issue of the deficit onto the public agenda in ways that can't be ignored.
But they need 14 votes on the 18-member commission to issue their plan as an official recommendation, and they have been struggling to get anywhere close to that number.
The greatest resistance is among the elected officials on the panel, suggesting that on fiscal issues there is, today at least, little grounds for or desire for compromise.
Galston predicts two phases in the battles between the White House and congressional Republicans.
The first will come next year in the form of partisan clashes, as Republicans challenge Obama on the budget, taxes and health care, followed later by a period of greater bipartisan cooperation.
What would cause the shift?
Public opinion.
There is considerable evidence that, despite the partisanship of the recent election, a majority of Americans still want to see the two parties work together.
If confrontation leads to stalemate, as it did in 1995, then both parties will be carefully watching the public reaction.
Whoever is judged to be losing is likely to shift course and seek compromise.
That, however, may be an optimistic view.
Partisanship and polarization are greater today than they were in the mid-1990s, and there appears to be a bigger ideological gap between Obama and congressional Republicans than there was between President Bill Clinton and the Republicans then.
At the same time, activists in both parties see 2010 as mere prelude to a more consequential election in 2012.
Given that reality, the civility on display this week may be welcomed by many Americans.
But it will take much more effort on the part of both sides to find common ground on the issues that still divide them.
Leaked U.S. document portrays Moscow as haven of corruption
Control of the city is in the hands of a "kleptocracy," and it passes on a portion of the bribes and protection money it collects all the way to the Kremlin, the U.S. Embassy in Russia reported in a memo in February.
Both the police and the Federal Security Service run huge protection rackets that help account for the high cost of living in Moscow, it said.
They collect money not only from legitimate businesses but from organized criminal groups as well.
Each layer of the bureaucracy - what Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has termed the "vertical of authority" - takes its cut as the money moves up the ladder.
The memo, which was sent to Washington under the name of Ambassador John Beyrle, was posted by WikiLeaks on its Web site Wednesday.
The memo is based on sources whose names have been redacted.
It was written while Yuri Luzhkov was still Moscow's mayor, and it blames him for much of the corruption.
He was fired in October by President Dmitry Medvedev, but there has been little evidence of a cleanup since then.
Luzhkov and his wife, Yelena Baturina, who owns a prominent construction firm, have consistently denied corruption accusations over the years, and he has won several libel suits over such accusations.
In September he told a Russian television station, when asked about a documentary suggesting he was corrupt: "It is mad, it is filth, it is a mess."
Russians overwhelmingly believe that theirs is a corrupt society, polls have shown.
But it is unusual to find the particulars spelled out as they were in the embassy's report, and it is unheard of that it should be diplomats from a foreign country doing so.
"The Moscow city government's direct links to criminality have led some to call it 'dysfunctional,' and to assert that the government operates more as a kleptocracy than a government," the memo says.
"Criminal elements enjoy a 'krysha' (a term from the criminal/mafia world literally meaning 'roof' or protection) that runs through the police, the Federal Security Service (FSB), Ministry of Internal Affairs (MVD), and the prosecutor's office, as well as throughout the Moscow city government bureaucracy.
"Analysts identify a three-tiered structure in Moscow's criminal world."
"Luzhkov is at the top."
"The FSB, MVD and militia are at the second level."
"Finally, ordinary criminals and corrupt inspectors are at the lowest level."
"This is an inefficient system in which criminal groups fill a void in some areas because the city is not providing some services."
The report says that the FSB rakes in money from the biggest firms, and that the police target small businesses.
One source, it said, "explained that Moscow business owners understand that it is best to get protection from the MVD and FSB (rather than organized crime groups) since they not only have more guns, resources, and power than criminal groups, but they are also protected by the law."
"For this reason, protection from criminal gangs is no longer so high in demand."
The memo notes that, while the collection of money is comprehensive, the protection itself can be spotty; even those who pay are sometimes subject to arrest.
Those who do not pay quickly find their businesses shut down on one pretext or another.
Medvedev has talked several times about fighting corruption but has admitted that he has made little headway.
The embassy memo relays reports of men taking suitcases, presumably stuffed with cash, into the Kremlin itself.
"In his fight against corruption, Medvedev has to rely on bureaucrats," Georgy Satarov, director of the Moscow think tank Indem, said in a recent interview.
"But he is a part of this bureaucracy."
"He is not part of a political class, because a political class doesn't exist in Russia anymore."
Without politics, without an opposition, without a separation of powers, he said, corruption is inevitable.
Nationwide, Indem estimates that corruption costs Russia more than $300 billion a year.
The country was ranked 154th in a recent survey on global perceptions of corruption by the nongovernmental organization Transparency International (countries are ranked from least to most corrupt).
The disclosure of the U.S. Embassy memo, which didn't occur until late evening Moscow time, is sure to stir displeasure within the Russian government, although to the extent that Luzhkov can be blamed for Moscow's failings, it might be an opportunity for the Kremlin to argue that it is solving the problem.
Interviewed for CNN by Larry King, Putin suggested that the WikiLeaks documents may be fabrications and reacted angrily to a disclosure that U.S. diplomats had called him Batman to Medvedev's Robin.
"The truth of the matter is, this is about our interaction, which is an important factor of the domestic policies in this country," he said.
"But to be honest with you, we didn't suspect that this would be done with such arrogance, with such a push and, you know, being so unethically done."
Khmer Rouge veterans forced to confront the past
In a dimly lighted concrete classroom with smudged and peeling walls, the principal of Anlong Veng High School recalled the man who had built it, the late Khmer Rouge leader Ta Mok.
"Everyone here loves Ta Mok."
"He was a good leader, and he cared about his people," said Sreng Kor Ma, 42.
Known as "the Butcher" for his brutality during Khmer Rouge rule, the commander remains popular in this remote former Khmer Rouge stronghold in northwestern Cambodia, where he built hospitals, bridges and other infrastructure and where thousands of the organization's former soldiers still live.
But this year, 12 years after the Khmer Rouge surrendered to the government, long-held loyalties are finally being challenged in Anlong Veng.
In April, a local truth and reconciliation forum allowed victims to publicly confront people who had participated in the regime.
In June, the government distributed a high school textbook here that for the first time teaches the history of the Khmer Rouge to the children of its former soldiers.
And in July, a joint U.N. and Cambodian tribunal handed down its first conviction of a former Khmer Rouge member, sentencing the onetime chief of the notorious Tuol Sleng torture center, Kaing Khek Iev, better known as Duch, to 35 years in prison.
With each of those developments, anxiety has grown among Anlong Veng's Khmer Rouge veterans, complicating efforts at reconciliation and their attempts to reintegrate into Cambodian society.
"There is resentment and fear among the former Khmer Rouge, but they are powerless to do anything," said Chhang Youk, head of the Documentation Center of Cambodia, an independent organization that researches the regime.
"For them, life under the Khmer Rouge was glorious, but the regime has become symbolic of evil."
"It is creating divisions within families."
During the Khmer Rouge rule of Cambodia, from 1975 until 1979, an estimated 1.7 million people were executed or died from starvation, disease or overwork.
When the Vietnamese invaded and toppled the Pol Pot-led government in 1979, remnants of the regime and its military fled to Cambodia's border with Thailand.
There they launched an insurgency that endured until the last of the movement surrendered in December 1998.
As Pol Pot, Nuon Chea and Ieng Sary directed the guerrilla war from their bases in western Cambodia's mountains and jungles, Ta Mok cultivated a following in Anlong Veng.
But in the mid-1990s, after a U.N.-sponsored peace agreement led to the country's first democratic elections in 1993, large groups of Khmer Rouge fighters began defecting to the government, culminating in the surrenders of Ieng Sary in 1996 and Nuon Chea and Khieu Samphan in 1998.
Pol Pot died of natural causes in 1998, and Ta Mok, who had held out, was captured by government forces in 1999 in the nearby Dangrek Mountains.
He died in a Phnom Penh prison in 2006 while awaiting trial.
With their benefactors no longer providing for them, most former Khmer Rouge fighters have descended into the grinding poverty common in rural Cambodia, and many remain nostalgic for the movement.
Although a few elite Khmer Rouge officials kept their local government posts in exchange for laying down their arms, the rank and file remain poor, unskilled farmers.
"These people have benefited very little following the surrender," said Sok Leang of the Center for Justice and Reconciliation, which holds public forums throughout Cambodia, including in Anlong Veng.
"They are embedded with the utopian agrarian ideology of the regime."
"They were brought up with no concept of doing business."
Sor Lim, 55, who joined the Khmer Rouge as a teenager in 1974, fought in the jungle around Anlong Veng before settling down to life as a poor rice farmer in 1998.
"Life under the Khmer Rouge was good," he said.
"Ta Mok fed everyone."
"But now, life is difficult because we have to provide for ourselves."
The ongoing Khmer Rouge tribunal has also provoked worries here.
Early next year, the court is expected to begin trying Nuon Chea, Khieu Samphan, Ieng Sary and his wife, Ieng Thirith, another former Khmer Rouge minister.
The court's mandate is to prosecute senior leaders and those most responsible for crimes, but it has not said whether it will pursue cases beyond those four.
This has done little to calm fears in Anlong Veng.
Recent media speculation has centered on Im Chaem, 64, who was a district chief in Banteay Meanchey province during Khmer Rouge rule in the late 1970s.
In 2007, she told researchers from the Documentation Center of Cambodia that she had supervised construction of the Trapeang Thma dam, a project in which thousands of forced laborers are thought to have died.
On a sweltering recent evening, Im Chaem returned from working in the fields to her wooden stilt house on a dirt road outside Anlong Veng.
As the sun cast long shadows across the parched grass, Im Chaem declined to discuss her past in the Khmer Rouge.
If the court summoned her, she said, she would refuse to go.
"Cambodia is at peace and stable," she said.
"If there are more prosecutions, there will be war."
Prime Minister Hun Sen, who defected from the Khmer Rouge in 1978, has also repeatedly warned that instability will occur if the court pursues more suspects, although experts and historians dispute that.
"Cambodia must dig a hole and bury the past," he has said.
But confronting the past is just what Cambodia must do to move forward, said Chhang Youk, of the documentation center.
"Reconciliation in Khmer terms is reconnecting the broken pieces," he said.
"It's our obligation to put these broken pieces together so that we can understand."
The center produced the first government-approved textbook about the Khmer Rouge, the 75-page "A History of Democratic Kampuchea."
It distributed it in Anlong Veng in June as a supplement to the Education Ministry's high school history textbook, which contains fewer than four pages about the Khmer Rouge.
As in much of Cambodia, Anlong Veng's young people know few details about the Khmer Rouge, despite the town's connection to the regime.
Touch Valeak, 19, a student at Anlong Veng High School, said the new textbook was helping students understand an important part of their history.
But his parents reacted with skepticism when he took the book home to study.
"My family rejects many parts of the textbook and the tribunal," he said.
"They are suspicious because they are not sure how many people the court will prosecute."
Such resistance has made the reconciliation process complex and difficult, Sok Leang said.
But the public forums, the textbook and the tribunal are beginning to have an impact, he said.
Still, the Khmer Rouge retains a powerful allure here.
Up in the Dangrek Mountains, a path overgrown with weeds and strewn with discarded plastic bags leads to a rectangle of black soot covered by a rusted tin roof.
Pol Pot's body was burned here on a pile of tires after his death in 1998.
Nuom Sothea, 31, a roadside cellphone vendor, said she didn't know much about the man who was cremated there.
"But he has a strong spirit, and many local people go there to pray to him," she said.
It was Nuom Sothea's birthday, and later that day she planned to walk to Pol Pot's final resting place, where she would leave a bunch of ripe bananas in hopes of bringing good luck.
Belarus agrees to give up its stock of weapons-grade uranium
In a surprise victory for President Obama's campaign to secure nuclear material worldwide, the government of Belarus announced Wednesday that it will give up its stock of highly enriched uranium, a critical component of nuclear weapons.
The deal was disclosed in a joint statement issued after Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton met with Belarusan Foreign Minister Sergei Martynov on the sidelines of a security summit here.
The U.S. government had been trying for years to persuade Belarus to give up its highly enriched uranium and seemed to have hit a roadblock last spring.
But U.S. officials told The Washington Post that a pair of classified operations were carried out with Belarus in the past two months to remove 187 pounds of weapons-grade uranium from a Belarusan research facility.
That set the stage for Wednesday's agreement to remove the rest of the material - about 500 pounds' worth, according to one official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the matter.
The agreement appeared to be one of the most important results of Obama's 47-nation Nuclear Security Summit in April, which excluded Belarus.
And it was apparently good enough to secure the former Soviet republic's invitation to the follow-up summit, in 2012.
"I was really fascinated by the fact they want a seat at the 2012 Nuclear Security Summit."
"That proves to me this process is working," said Ken Luongo, president of the Partnership for Global Security, a group promoting nuclear security.
Clinton called the agreement "a very significant, important step" by Belarus.
Obama pledged in Prague in April 2009 to secure all vulnerable nuclear material around the world within four years.
Since then, the U.S. government has helped six countries get rid of all their highly enriched uranium.
Belarus would be the seventh.
A dozen countries did so under the George W. Bush administration.
At the time of Obama's Nuclear Security Summit, Belarusan President Alexander Lukashenko had declared that the nation would never give up its uranium.
"We have kept highly enriched uranium - hundreds of kilograms of what is basically weapons-grade and lower-enriched uranium," Lukashenko said then.
"This is our commodity... We are not going to make dirty bombs, and we are not going to sell it to anybody."
"We're using it for research purposes, is all."
Belarus approached the United States a few months ago, however, indicating interest in reaching an agreement.
The first undertaking to remove Belarus's uranium, in October, was especially complicated because the material had been slightly irradiated, officials said.
It was loaded onto a special train that traveled more than 1,300 miles to a Russian facility for storage and disposal, officials said.
The second operation concluded Monday and was done by plane, according to the officials.
The U.S. government spent $13 million on the efforts, much of it to supply Belarus's research facility with low-enriched uranium, which is not suitable for nuclear weapons.
"This was very carefully coordinated and orchestrated to build up the trust" that led to the agreement signed by Clinton, said Andrew Bieniawski, an Energy Department official working on Global Threat Reduction.
The James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies estimated this year that Belarus had at least 88 pounds of weapons-grade uranium, as well as hundreds of pounds of highly enriched uranium.
Belarus will aim to eliminate its stockpile by 2012, according to the joint statement.
Relations between Belarus and the United States have been strained for years, primarily because of Lukashenko's harsh repression of human rights.
But Wednesday's statement suggested a potential thawing.
"Welcoming progress on these global security issues, the United States and Belarus acknowledged that enhanced respect for democracy and human rights in Belarus remains central to improving bilateral relations, and is essential to the progress of the country and its citizens," it said.
