Gutach: Increased safety for pedestrians
They are not even 100 metres apart: On Tuesday, the new B 33 pedestrian lights in Dorfparkplatz in Gutach became operational - within view of the existing Town Hall traffic lights.
Two sets of lights so close to one another: intentional or just a silly error?
Yesterday, Gutacht's Mayor gave a clear answer to this question.
"At the time, the Town Hall traffic lights were installed because this was a school route," explained Eckert yesterday.
The Kluser lights protect cyclists, as well as those travelling by bus and the residents of Bergle.
The system, which officially became operational yesterday, is of importance to the Sulzbachweg/Kirchstrasse junction.
We have the museum, two churches, the spa gardens, the bus stop, a doctor's practice and a bank, not to mention the traffic from the 'Grub' residential area.
"At times of high road and pedestrian traffic, an additional set of lights were required to ensure safety," said Eckert.
This was also confirmed by Peter Arnold from the Offenburg District Office.
"According to current measurements, around 12,000 vehicles travel through the town of Gutach on the B33 on a daily basis, of which heavy goods traffic accounts for around ten per cent," emphasised Arnold.
Therefore the construction of an additional set of lights was more than necessary: "Here safety comes first, it's that simple," said Arnold.
A total of four road safety inspections were carried out and a roundabout was also considered, however, this idea was rejected on account of the narrowness of the Sulzbachweg/Kirchstrasse junctions.
According to Arnold, every possible test was carried out prior to the selection of the location for the traffic light posts: "Using a goods vehicle loaded with particularly long tree trunks, we also tested whether such vehicles could access the B 33 from the Sulzbachweg without knocking over the traffic light posts".
The traffic light system itself, which cost around EUR 15,000, is the "most modern system that is currently available on the market," explained Arnold.
The system is fitted with coloured LEDs, which are bright enough that drivers can easily see the lights, even when the sun is low in the sky.
And they are also energy-efficient: The older light systems consume around 100 Watts, with the new ones consuming just eight.
There are three sets of lights per direction of travel.
Arnold explained the technology used by the new system: It is fitted with two radar sensors.
If the pedestrian presses the button at the traffic lights, the top radar sensor checks the traffic status.
If the street is clear, the pedestrian obtains a green light immediately, if not, there is a delay of around 15 seconds.
An additional radar sensor checks whether the green phase for the pedestrian can be ended.
"If a group of people or if disabled persons are crossing the street, the green phase is extended, thus ensuring that everyone gets safely across the street," explained Arnold.
Of course, drivers must also play their part and keep their eyes on the road.
Yesterday this was not the case: The light had barely turned green for pedestrians when a luxury vehicle sped through on a red light.
For more than 30 years, Josef Winkler has been writing from the heart, telling of the hardships of his childhood and youth.
The catastrophes of his Catholic village upbringing - the speechlessness, his tendency towards brute force and dulled sexuality, the confinement and lack of joy - all of this has been described many times by the Kaernten-born poet.
The Büchner prizewinner is known primarily as a writer of prose, with theatre texts something of a rarity for him.
In a collage of prose texts For his performance piece, "Wetterleuchten auf der Zungenspitze" (Summer lightning on the tip of your tongue), which can now be seen in Garage X on Petersplatz, Gerhard Fresacher ,creates a collage of prose texts.
The theatre producer has thus combined elements from the autobiographically inspired novel "Der Leibeigene" (1987) [The Bondsman] featuring prose miniatures from "Leichnam, seine Familie belauernd" (2003) [Corpse, stalking his family].
On the predominantly empty stage - with one important requirement: a crumpled sofa, on which cast members allude to copulating and masturbating - the eight-person ensemble work their way through the text material.
However, Director Fresacher seems to have little trust in the text.
The 70-minute performance glosses over the script with a host of director's additions, well-known from the repertoire of post-dramatic theatrical styles.
In particular, the actresses play a major role in the sometimes rather dubious staging.
They are manhandled, their heads held under water, tacked to the wall by their evening gowns.
Wrapped in cellophane or in girdles, they stumble on dangerously high heels across the set, either delivering monologues at the top of their voices or lying completely silent on the stage.
However, the source text makes barely any reference to this intense delivery.
The best moments of the evening is when the singing starts - tracks range from Deep Purple to traditional folk songs.
Only towards the end does the highly charged performance start to wind down, and we see flashes of Winkler's somewhat absurd sense of humour.
Königsfeld: Small team gives a spirited performance
The voluntary fire service bravely came through the main autumn test run in spite of a lack of personnel.
Only eleven men took part in the exercise.
For the training exercise, department commander, Hans Kammerer, chose the Feder premises on Burgberger Strasse.
A short-circuit was reported to have occurred there during sawing.
Two people were injured by the resulting fire and the spread of smoke, however, one was able to make an emergency call.
Two fire fighters equipped with respiratory gear prepared to enter the building following the initial inspection of the situation by Hans Kammerer.
After a short time they managed to find the first person and direct them out of the building.
The second person had to be carried.
This was not so simple as they also had to negotiate a narrow stairwell.
The building, a workshop with integrated stabling for two horses, was not easy to secure.
There were large quantities of wood and bales of straw stored inside.
In addition to this, there were also electrical machines for wood processing.
The first attempt to extinguish the fire was made using the tank on the fire engine.
Another line was taken from the surface hydrant around 100 metres away.
Only three attempts could be made to extinguish the blaze.
A hollow-stream nozzle in the building was also used.
For Hans Kammerer, the exercise was also a chance to show what can be achieved with just a few available staff.
In case of emergency, support is provided by the Königsfeld daytime task force.
The Commander expressed his satisfaction following the exercise.
Networking between universities and companies is important
On a visit to the district of Breisgau-Hochschwarzwald, it was explained to Parliamentary President Guido Wolf in Titisee-Neustadt where the workforce of tomorrow will come from.
In the Hochschwarzwald Support Centre, he addressed this important question alongside the executive principals of the vocational colleges and the district grammar school and the chairs of the parents' council.
"Education is an important factor for the location," highlighted Claudia Stehle, Director of the Hans Thoma School, which introduced the networked Hochschwarzwald Education Centre Schools Project.
During the presentation, Wolf seemed impressed by the educational pilot project.
Since 2011, there has been successful collaboration in Wälderstadt between the Support Centre, the District Grammar School and the Vocational School Complex.
He also praised the family-friendly approach within the district.
"It is important, not only to keep the family life stage in mind, but, on account of demographic change, the period spent providing long-term care and support for relatives as well," explained Wolf.
He also stated that an increasing number of employed persons are looking after the long-term care and support of relatives.
"Without support from their employer, the resulting burden placed on employees could result in the termination of the employment contract," said Wolf.
However, nobody can afford to lose qualified workers," he added.
Another, particularly important factor is that of networking between universities and companies.
"After all, people who have learned of the merits of the region during their studies often remain within the region, along with their acquired knowledge and skills, which contributes to the strengthening of the region," said the State Parliamentary President, expressing his thorough conviction.
For it is only if a sufficient number of educational places can be provided that the need for skilled workers can be covered.
In his opinion, the district's advantage as a location is its advantageous location in south-west Germany, in immediate proximity to France and Switzerland.
In addition to this, on his train journey from Titisee-Neustadt to Freiburg, he experienced first-hand the efforts already undertaken to develop public transport.
"You must continue to be tenacious and make sure that local public transport becomes even better," he explained in the address given to the local politicians in attendance.
Music makes for an entertaining afternoon
It was 15 years ago that the Kaul family first invited the Dietingen senior citizens for coffee and cake, followed by a snack.
Previously, the elderly citizens were hosted in the service station canteen.
The coffee afternoon is now held in the St. Josef nursing home.
The residents of the home were delighted with the delicious cakes and tarts.
Later on, a sausage salad was provided.
Silvia Kimmich-Bantle and her father Karl Kimmich entertained those in attendance with popular tunes.
The more than 100-year-old natural stone wall, serving as the foremost boundary between the old school yard - which is due to be renovated - and Kirchstrasse, will once again feature on the renovation cost plan for the town of Bräunlingen.
In the days before the Kilbig Autumn Folk Festival, when the first renovation work was being carried out at the front of the school yard, a small corner wall with balustrades was installed to stabilise and relieve the static load on the old natural stone wall, which is more than one hundred years old.
According to Alexander Misok of the Bräunlingen Municipal Planning and Building Control Authority, the ongoing procedure plans to involve the Regional Memorial Authority in the planning stage and to draw up a renovation concept for the old wall.
A cost calculation is to be performed by a team of professionals, which will then be submitted to the Town Council, which will make a decision and determine the ongoing procedure.
A decision is expected to be made in the coming year.
Following the renovation, plastering and planting of trees in the old internal school yard, within the two wings of the 1912 school, as a subsequent measure the boundary wall, which is in need of refurbishment, must be renovated from the ground up within the foreseeable future.
The historic, one hundred-year-old boundary wall between the old school-yard and Kirchstrasse is in need of renovation, primarily as a result of water and frost damage, on account of the lack of drainage, and is leaning forwards.
Deep cracks in a number of individual stones testify to the weather damage, however, at present the wall is not in danger of collapse.
A secure wall is essential for a school yard that is used by pupils, and this is the purpose of the current fortification work.
The school yard renovation was originally planned back in 2008/2009, however, high unplanned expenses meant that the work had to be pushed back.
The Regional Memorial Authority will have a major say in the historic school wall renovation, which has even been used for filming.
If this authority were to impose requirements, then the town of Bräunlingen would hope to receive subsidies from the monument preservationists.
The pupils of the Bräunlingen Primary School, who are now being taught in a well renovated old school building, with a new hall, will soon be able to use the old school yard as well.
Özdemir wants jazz training in Stuttgart
Cem Özdemir, Federal Chairman of the Green Party, has now engaged in the ongoing discussions regarding the future of the Baden-Wuerttemberg Music Academy.
"I do not think it is right to abandon comprehensive training in the Stuttgart Music College," said Özdemir, speaking to the "Stuttgarter Nachrichten".
Jazz and classical music belong together at the jazz location of Stuttgart.
As such, Özdemir, who is the favourite in Stuttgart for a direct mandate in the parliamentary elections on 22 September, is in disagreement with the Green-Red State Government.
On the basis of an expert study, this government is urging the reorganisation of the five music colleges in Baden-Wuerttemberg.
In accordance with these plans, the jazz and pop courses, among others, are to be relocated from the Stuttgart Music College to the Mannheim Music College.
US borders: "Super tunnel" for drug smuggling discovered
On the border between Mexico and the USA, investigators have discovered and shut down a "super tunnel" intended for drug smuggling.
As announced by the US Customs Authorities, the pipe between Tijuana and San Diego, measuring more than 500 metres in length, was equipped with electricity, a railway track and a ventilation system.
Three suspects were detained in relation to the discovery, with eight tonnes of marijuana and almost 150 kilograms of cocaine seized.
According to the details provided, the tunnel had not yet been put into use.
"These cartels are stupid if they think that they can dig through under the radar," said the US Attorney for the District of Southern California, Laura Diffy, at a press conference held in front of a warehouse in San Diego, where the end of the tunnel was discovered.
Referring to the drug gangs, Duffy assured: "If you continue to build and attempt to use these tunnels, we are determined to make this a big waste of your dirty money".
Both the US authorities and the Mexican security forces are engaged in an ongoing battle against the drug cartels.
Since 2006, more than 77,000 people have been killed in conjunction with drug crime in Mexico.
Built by experts
Due to the elaborate configuration of the tunnel, investigators are working on the assumption that it was build by architects and engineers and that the construction took around one year.
The railway system was equipped in such a way that electrically powered carts could be used on it.
On the Mexican side, the entrance is located in a building located 80 metres from the border.
According to the authorities, a ladder runs 20 metres underground to the actual entrance of the tunnel.
The tunnel has a cross-section measuring 1.20 metres high and 90 centimetres across.
It would thus be suitable to assist illegal immigration into the USA.
Two of the suspects were detained in conjunction with the cocaine find.
The third, a Mexican, was detained due to the seizure of the marijuana.
All three face a maximum penalty of life imprisonment, according to the authorities.
Since 2006, eight tunnels of this type have been discovered, the press conference in San Diego continued.
However, this was the first time that cocaine was found in such a tunnel construction.
Normally cocaine is smuggled in smaller quantities and not through tunnels.
This shows the "desperation" of the drug gangs, whose traditional routes have now been cut off, said Bill Sherman of the DEA Drug Squad in San Diego.
They will do anything to make it to the USA.
No specific details were given regarding those detained, but it is reported that at least one is Mexican
They can expect prison terms of up to ten years.
2014 is to be a year of celebration in Geisingen
The anniversary celebrations in the town of Geisingen, to mark the 1,250th
anniversary of the first documented mention of the town, are drawing closer.
When the year comes to an end in just eight weeks, the anniversary year will be upon us.
Geisingen and Kirchen-Hausen were first documented together in the year 794.
A deed was drafted in Kirchen, in which both towns are mentioned.
On 15 March, the anniversary year will be officially launched, and because Geisingen currently has no suitable venues, this launch event will take place in the location where the two towns were first documented 1,250 years ago, in Kirchen-Hausen.
As part of the anniversary celebrations, a number of events are planned both in Geisingen and Kirchen-Hausen.
Kirchen-Hausen will celebrate the 1,250th anniversary with a celebratory weekend from 18 to 20
July.
On the Friday there will be a ceremony, and on the Saturday and Sunday a party will be held at the Kirchtalhalle.
The Kirchen-Hausen Kirchenfest festival will also be held on this celebratory weekend.
Town Musical Director, Rudolf Barth, has composed a commissioned piece for the town on the occasion of the anniversary, which will be performed on three dates.
On 21 June, in conjunction with the Schwarzwaldverein [Black Forest Association] Mid-Summer Festival, on 12 July in the Arena, accompanied by fireworks, and on 13 December as the first concert put on by the Stadtmusik (Town Musical Society) in the new Festival Hall.
This venue will be completed and inaugurated in the anniversary year, with the official date set for the last weekend in September, on 27 and 28 September.
On the occasion of the Geisingen town anniversary, a new chronicle will also be published.
"However, it will not merely be a chronicle of Geisingen itself, but rather a printed work on the Geisingen of today, which now consists of Geisingen, Kirchen-Hausen, Leipferdingen, Aulfingen and Gutmadingen," said Mayor Walter Hengstler.
And the Geisingen of today is also celebrating a birthday in 2014, as it was in 1974 that the incorporations to form the current region were completed.
The new chronicle is to be presented on 21 or 22 November in the new Festival Hall in Geisingen.
However, 2014 is also a year of many anniversaries in other respects.
The Narrenzunft Strohglonki (Strohglonki Fool's Guild celebration) begins on 8 February with an evening of traditional customs on the occasion of its 60-year anniversary/ The Harmonie Gutmadingen music association will turn 90 years old and on 29 March will hold a celebratory banquet and then from 1 to 4 May will be celebrating the Bezirksfest [District Music Festival].
The Leipferdingen Nursing Home will turn 40 years old, the Geisingen School has now been at its new location for 50 years and will be celebrating this on 10 May, and the Polyhymnia Leipferdingen music association will turn 150 years old and will be celebrating this as part of the Brunnenfest [Fountain Festival] from 4 to 7 July.
The town of Geisingen was first officially documented in the year 764, in a deed of donation, which is now in the possession of the St. Gallen Monastery.
The deed was drawn up in Kirchen (Hausen), which at the time was the location of the courthouse.
Both communities are thus mentioned in the same deed.
One reason for choosing 2014 to celebrate the 1,250-year anniversary in this way, is that it also coincides with the 40th anniversary of the Community Reform (Gemeindereform).
Council sets its sights on rail system
Should the "Am Hirschen" railway crossing be reconstructed at great cost, in order to increase traffic safety?
The Town Councils have decided that the answer is yes.
Schiltach will have to contribute up to EUR 220,000 to the project.
The Deutsche Bahn hopes to improve the Kinzigtal railway line in the coming year.
In particular, safety at railway crossings is to be increased - collisions between trains and other vehicles frequently occur at these across the country.
If the municipalities agree to the reconstruction measures, they will be required to contribute one third of the costs, with the remainder divided between Deutsche Bahn and the Federal Government.
Schiltach's town master mason, Roland Grießhaber, explained the peculiarities of the "Am Hirschen" railway crossing to the Town Council.
At the crossing, the town is planning to increase the height of the mouth of the tunnel to the west of the railway line.
Larger vehicles, for example those that transport long logs, would be able to wait there in the event of oncoming traffic, without having to block the railway line.
Grießhaber therefore suggested that a required supporting wall be constructed in such a way that the town could in due course widen the adjoining street in order to guarantee the smooth flow of traffic.
This was the subject of controversial discussion in the Town Council, as some council members cast doubt over the need to widen the road: Thomas Kipp summarised the perspective of the critics with this statement: "Do we have to hand over so much money on account of so few vehicles?"
Mayor Thomas Haas retorted: The "Hirschen" railway crossing is used regularly for the transportation of long logs.
Even wood from the "Kuhbach" area is occasionally transported via this route, as the vehicles, which measure 20 metres in length, would not be able to use the route via the Häberles Bridge, as they would not be able to make the turn on the Hauptstrasse.
Furthermore, when the Hauptstrasse is blocked, the route would also serve as a bypass for those vehicles that are not permitted to use the tunnel, argued Haas.
Given that it is likely that the Kirchberg and Schlossberg tunnel will have to be reconstructed and renovated, as is currently the case in Wolfach, the "Am Hirschen" railway crossing may become of major traffic significance for a longer period of time.
The councillors agreed to have an investigation conducted as to what costs the planned widening of the road would incur.
Nevertheless, the reconstruction of the railway crossing was consented to by a majority, on the provision that the required supporting wall be built in such a way that the town could, if required, extend the connecting road in the "Bahnhofstraße" direction to around 5.5 metres to accommodate oncoming traffic.
The reconstruction of the railway crossing at the Trautwein tannery could, on the other hand, bring with it an entirely different problem with regard to access to the steep "Geroltzhäuser Weg".
The Administrative Department had Deutsche Bahn's reconstruction plans investigated by the Breinlinger Engineering Office, as they had doubts as to whether the planned connection of the Geroltzhäuser Weg will be straightforward.
The investigation came to the conclusion that it could not be ruled out that the inclination of the road could result in longer vehicles becoming stuck.
The town, as the authority responsible for road construction, would then bear responsibility for this.
The reconstruction could therefore result in liability disputes.
Because both the transportation of wood and turning are both possible as things are, the reconstruction of the railway crossing should not be consented to, argued Haas.
At this point, the risk of a train collision with a vehicle positioned on the crossing is considerably lower than at other railway crossings, on account of the fact that there is a midpoint from which there is a good line of sight, directly alongside the stopping point.
The trains themselves, coming from the central station, must also be sufficiently slowed down so that there is no threat of collision.
According to the councillors, the reconstruction of this railway line was rejected by a majority, as the town of Schiltach would "bear the brunt of the cost" for the problem of vehicles becoming stuck, since the Deutsche Bahn would be able to deny any responsibility following the completion of the construction work.
The committee considers the reconstruction of the "Vor Heubach" and 'Vor Kuhbach" railway crossings, for which the crossing agreements have already been reached with Deutsche Bahn, to be unproblematic.
ESA makes decision on major space missions: Missions costing billions
Distant planets, gravitational waves or black holes - experts from the European Space Agency must now agree on two major projects that are to be launched in the coming years.
There were 30 proposals to choose from, five of which are still in the running.
Distant worlds.
Astronomers have already found more than 1,000 planets near other stars.
Whether or not life exists on at least some of these, no-one knows.
The choice is a difficult one: Should we search for gravitational waves?
Or instead conduct research into the origin of the cosmos?
Or search for planets similar to the Earth and thus perhaps discover extraterrestrial life?
These are the questions currently being asked by those responsible at the European Space Agency, ESA.
For their "Cosmic Vision" programme, they are looking for ideas for two major space projects, which should greatly advance research.
The budget for "L-Missions" such as this lies at around one billion Euro.
The projects are planned to start in 2028 and 2034.
At the beginning of September, the elite in the field of European space research met in Paris to discuss proposals for such missions.
30 ideas were up for debate, of which five have now made it onto the short list.
Numerous panels are assessing the proposals, posing questions to the researchers.
Over the coming days, a final decision is to be made by the Scientific Programme Committee.
In total, four main questions were chosen by the ESA, to which the missions of the "Cosmic Vision" programme, initiated in 2007, are to find the answers.
What are the conditions required for the formation of planets and life?
The precise processes for the formation of stars from large gas clouds - and thus the formation of the planets that orbit these stars - lie in proverbial darkness.
A large infra-red telescope in space could penetrate this darkness.
And if a star has planets, under what circumstances can life exist there?
In order to pursue this question, the "Cheops" space telescope is to be launched in 2017, with which 500 known planetary systems in proximity to us will be investigated in greater detail.
The possibilities are, however, limited - Cheops is a small mission with a budget of 150 million Euro.
With larger instruments, astronomers could map planets similar to Earth and even analyse the composition of their atmospheres, and thus search for "biomarkers": gases that serve as an indicator for biological activity.
How does the solar system function?
This question should also provide information regarding the preconditions for the origins of life.
The magnetic activity of a star, the interaction of its magnetic field and the emitted particle radiation play an important role.
It is possible to investigate these processes in our solar system, to serve as an example to be applied elsewhere.
With the "Solar Orbiter", the ESA has already approved an M-class mission (for which the budget stands at around half a million Euro) to address this matter.
The probe is to be launched in 2017 and will closely observe the surface and activity of the sun.
Jupiter and its moons are also of great interest to the researchers.
They want to find our what role the giant planet has played in the development of the solar system.
The ESA is planning that the first of the total of three L-Missions of the "Cosmic Vision" programme will address this subject.
The "Juice" (Jupiter Icy Moons Explorer) probe is planned to begin its journey in 2022.
Eight years later it will reach Jupiter and will investigate the atmosphere of the planet as well as the icy moons Europa, Callisto and Ganymede.
What are the basic physical laws of the Universe?
Outer space offers many possibilities for studying substances under extreme conditions and thus examining whether the laws of nature, as known to us, are still valid there.
There may also be deviations that could show physicians the path to a new theory, under the umbrella of which all known natural laws could be united.
How did the universe come about and what does it consist of?
13.7 billion years ago, our cosmos was created by the Big Bang.
Alongside the materials familiar to us, from which stars, planets and life forms such as ourselves are composed, there exists dark matter, the gravitational force of which holds galaxies and galaxy clusters together, and dark energy, the effects of which accelerate the expansion of the universe.
Thus far, researchers know neither which physical laws applied in the initial moments after the Big Bang, nor what dark matter and dark energy consist of.
With "Euclid", the ESA has already approved an M-mission, planned to commence in 2020.
With a special telescope, the probe is to examine the distribution of material in the universe across the entire sky, thus enabling conclusions to be drawn regarding the properties of dark matter and dark energy.
Proposals that are in the running...
Of the 30 proposals, only two will remain at the end of the selection procedure.
The proposal with the best chance of approval as an L-mission, in the opinion of many experts, is "E-Lisa", a demanding concept that aims to prove the existence of gravitational waves.
Many physicians perceive this to entail changes in the structure of space-time, which Albert Einstein predicted almost 100 years ago.
To date they have never been proved to exist.
The scientists behind the project hope that Elisa could achieve this.
The mission involves placing a detector, consisting of two or three probes, in outer space.
Unlike systems on Earth, it could also prove gravitational waves created during the Big Bang, and thus provide fresh knowledge regarding the origin of the cosmos.
Four other proposals are still competing for the second L-mission place: a large X-ray telescope called "Athena", which among other things would research black holes, "Icy Planets", another mission to the outer planets of the solar system, "prism", a mission for the measurement of cosmic background radiation, and the "Exoplanet Finder", which would find and investigate planets similar to Earth.
Among others, proposals that have already been ruled out include proposals for bringing samples back from Mars, conducting research on the moon, Venus and asteroids, as well as proposals in the area of solar physics.
Sayings come from the Bible
At least 40 women attended the last women's breakfast of the year, in the Evangelical Parish of Bisingen.
The theme of the day in the parish hall was "Sayings from the Bible" and "Expressions from the Middle Ages".
Zita Köhler, the Chairperson of the Parish Council, agreed to give a talk on Biblical proverbs after breakfast.
"Proverbs contain pearls of wisdom, commandments or warnings," she explained.
She compared several German sayings with the corresponding Bible verses and explained the meaning.
She referred to sayings such as: "Holzauge sei wachsam" (keep your eyes peeled), "wie Schuppen von den Augen fallen" (like scales falling from one's eyes), "ein Auge auf jemand werfen" (to cast an eye on someone), "den Seinen gibt's der Herr im Schlaf" (good things come to some when they sleep) and "seine Hände in Unschuld waschen" (to wash one's hands of something).
On several occasions, the speaker asked those listening to guess what proverb they were based on.
Expressions from the Middle Ages were addressed by Parish Councillor Christel Dehner: "Aller guten Dinge sind drei" (All good things come in threes), "blau machen" (to skip school/work), "etwas verhauen" (to wallop something).
She explained the meaning and origin of the expressions, which she referred to as "bridges to the past".
To round off the morning there was a tombola.
The prizes were placed, covered, on a table and were humorously paraphrased prior to being presented to the winners.
Mayoral candidate Roman Waizenegger was also to be found among the visitors to the joint breakfast.
Learning rather than unemployment: Tourism pilot project for the untrained
A pilot project for the tourist industry is being launched today in the Mecklenburg lake district.
Under the management of the Federal Employment Agency, 49 men and women who are already working within the industry as untrained workers, will be trained as qualified hotel and restaurant staff over the course of three winters.
"What's innovative about it is that the six-month courses end with diplomas," said Carmen Wiechert of the Neubrandenburg Employment Agency.
There are many benefits: The participants will not be unemployed, the companies receive trained skilled workers, which are in continually increasing demand in hotels and restaurants, and the agency will not have to fund unemployment.
Also involved in the project are the Chamber of Industry and Commerce in Neubrandenburg and the German Hotel and Restaurant Association (Deutsche Hotel- und Gaststätte, Dehoga) of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania.
In October, the number of jobless fell slightly by 22, to a total of 1,307.
The rate of 3.1 per cent is indeed better than the previous year and is also better than in September, "however, we had hoped for more," said Monika Felder-Bauer, acting branch manager of the Employment Agency in Sonthofen.
Several companies have thus far reacted cautiously when it comes to hiring.
Stating a reason for this, Felder-Bauer said: "We have barely any skilled workers in the fields of skilled crafts and trades, healthcare and geriatric care."
Seasonal job offers for staff in hotel and restaurant businesses have been coming in since September.
The Winter season within the industry begins in mid-December.
The complete background report on this can be found in the "Allgäuer Anzeigeblatt" newspaper dated 31/10/2013 (page 33).
USA: Shots fired at Los Angeles Airport
On Friday morning (local time) an unknown suspect fired shots at the LAX Airport.
While the airport management announced via short messaging service Twitter that the shooter is in custody, the "Los Angeles Times" reported that the man is dead.
A member of security staff was also killed.
The media also reported that several people injured.
US President Barack Obama is being kept informed of the situation, said White House spokesperson Jay Carney.
The incident took place in Terminal 3. Eye witnesses reported seeing a shooter with a gun in one of the departure lounges, as was reported by several media.
One traveller told the broadcaster CNN about how many people had sought protection in panic.
Travellers screamed and children cried.
Panic broke out among those waiting, with many hiding behind seats in fear.
An employee of the "Los Angeles Times" who was travelling at the time told of how he had heard two shots fired.
An employee of security company TSA suffered a gunshot wound to the foot.
The scene was "like something out of a movie".
The man reported that he was then himself taken to a safety area.
The shots were said to have been fired near a security inspection area.
Airport building evacuated
Television footage revealed how numerous ambulances and police cars arrived at a terminal.
One hundred people were brought out of the building to safety.
Users on Twitter published photos of a SWAT officer and a weapon lying on the ground.
According to a message shared by the airport management via twitter, the incident began at 9.30 am (local time).
The access roads were blocked off, which, according to CNN, caused long tailbacks.
Except for the landing of arrival aircraft, flight traffic was temporarily suspended, it was reported.
However, several planes could be seen taking off on CNN.
Terminal 3 serves mainly small US airlines.
The Los Angeles LAX airport is one of the largest airports in the USA.
Revolutionary Sacred Music Factory
To close the celebrations on the occasion of its 160th anniversary, the Liederkranz Dunningen (Dunningen Amateur Choir, or Glee Club, if you like) will perform Franz Schubert's "Deutsche Messe" (German Mass) to accompany two church services.
Following the great success of the musical, "Rock my Life", which enthused audiences this past Spring, the Liederkranz will bless two church services with the performance of Franz Schubert's Deutsche Messe, to close its anniversary year celebrations.
On Saturday 26 October, this exceptional mass will be heard from 7.00 p.m. during the evening mass in the St. Marinuskirche Dunningen and on Sunday 27 October, from 10.15, at the service in the St. Johannes Baptistkirche in Lackendorf.
The so-called 'German Mass', with the original title "Gesänge zur Feier des heiliges Opfers der Messe" (Songs to celebrate the holy sacrifice of the mass), D 872, is a spiritual work by composer Franz Schubert, dating from 1826, at at the time it was written was considered almost revolutionary.
Patron Johan Philipp Neumann has in mind for the mass to be performed as part of the church services.
Under the directorship of Hermann Schneider, the choir will be accompanied by the wind ensemble of the Frohsinn Tennenbronn Music Society, and by Noemi Lokodi on the organ.
Haslach: Scepticism visibly gives way to confidence
The 2015 Parish Council elections will bring about fundamental change, for example in the Haslach Pastoral Care Unit (Seelsorgeeinheit Haslach, SE).
There will then only be one joint Parish Council for all six parishes.
In a joint meeting on Saturday, the committees from Haslach, Hofstetten, Mühlenbach, Fischerbach, Steinach and Welschensteinach prepared for the changes.
This is because there are no further changes to be made to the fundamental decisions of the diocese and it is up to the Parish Councils to implement these in as satisfactory a manner possible.
During the course of the day one thing became particularly clear: the scepticism towards the new system is reluctantly yet visibly giving way to confidence.
The extremely constructive discussions between the six committees and the full-time members of the pastoral care team addressed topics ranging from perceptions and expectations regarding the 2015 reforms, to concrete proposals regarding the future composition and size of the Parish Council.
Regional Dean Georg Schmitt explained the newly drawn-up guidelines for pastoral care units in the arch-diocese of Freiburg with the help of a presentation.
According to the guidelines, the SE Haslach, as a church community, will be a corporation under public law, which shall assume the rights and obligations of the six individual church communities.
There will then only be one joint Parish Council and a Foundation Council, in which the rector will be represented by virtue of his office.
From each parish, at least two elected members are to be represented, with so-called church community teams set up on-site in the six parishes.
In future their task will be to promote church life on a local basis.
Regarding the issue of the finances of the individual parishes, the need for extensive discussion became evident.
The reforms plan for the accumulated assets in the parishes to be retained for a specified purpose.
Accounts payable, on the other hand, will be passed over to the "church community" as a whole.
In particular, planned major investments, the debts from which thus affect all parishes, were cause for great concern.
"In the past, investments were only made in projects that could be managed by the individual parishes by themselves," said Haslach's Parish Council Chairman Bruno Prinzbach.
Barbar Ritter, Chair of the Committee in the Schutterwald-Neuried pastoral care unit, has practical experience of a joint committee for five parishes.
In 2006 she set herself the task, "Become one, remain five" and came to realise that the task is really not that simple.
The Committees of the Haslach pastoral care unit set out to answer questions regarding the future composition and size of the joint Parish Council, and the practical work of the church community teams.
The specific details will be confirmed in subsequent meetings and decided in an additional joint meeting of all six committees in the coming spring.
At the end, Parish Counsellor Michael Schöner from Steinach presented the new logo of the pastoral care unit, which was agreed on by a clear majority.
Electricity to become more expensive in Pfullendorf
The citizens of Pfullendorf will have to adjust to high electricity costs.
As Managing Director of the municipal energy company, Jörg-Arne Bias, confirmed to the SÜDKURIER, families of four in Pfullendorf will be on the receiving end of a price increase of EUR 70 to 90 per year.
One major reason for the upcoming price increase is the rise of the so-called EEC Levy from 5.277 to 6.3 Cents per kilowatt hour.
This levy will be reset by the four operators of the large power grids, in October of each year.
They estimate the additional costs they will incur as a result of the "energy turnaround", which they will be able to recover by means of a levy on the price of electricity.
The Pfullendorf municipal energy company forms the last link in this chain.
In its projections, the supervisory council of the energy company even assumed a levy higher than that reported by Jörg-Arne Bias.
The specific figures must now be calculated before the municipal energy cmpany can inform its customers of the precise price increase next week.
"We are working on the assumption of an increase of 1 cent plus x," said Bias, with the figure likely to be closer to 2 cents.
Traffic lights permanently red: observe waiting time
Sometimes a traffic light simply never turns green.
The contact loop on the road does not react, or the light itself is defective.
What should you do - drive through on red?
If an affected person has waited for a sufficiently long period of time at a red light, and provided the crossing is clear, they can drive on, explained Stuttgart-based lawyer Ralf Becker in "Motorrad" (Motorcycle) magazine.
The waiting time must, however, be "appropriate", which can be interpreted differently on a case-to-case basis.
Becker advises that you wait at least five minutes before a fault with the traffic lights can be assumed.
Anyone who drives on in spite of a red light must, however, be aware that he/she will be fully liable for any resulting accident.
Anyone who waits for less than five minutes has, under certain circumstances, not waited long enough, warned Becker, referring to a ruling of the Hamm Higher Regional Court.
In the case in question, a driver ignored a light that was permanently red after around three minutes and and was held responsible for negligently jumping a red light.
The traffic lights were actually not defective, but rather turned green just a few minutes later.
He was spared a driving ban on account of the special circumstances - but was not spared a fine.
Town Council delighted with solid budget
Every time discussion in Town Council meetings turns to the budget, Mayor Ralph Gerster has good reason to smile.
The municipality coffers in Herdwangen-Schönach are well stocked and the administration has been debt-free since 2005.
In this sense, this the 2012 budgetary year, can also be recorded as a complete success.
This became clear upon presentation of the annual accounts for 2012.
As Andrea Rothmund explained, the administrative budget came in at more than EUR one million higher than originally planned, at around 7.6 million Euro.
The administrative budget surplus, at around EUR 1.8 million, also stood at around EUR one million above projections.
The surplus is primarily due to higher trade tax income and the local authorities' contribution towards income tax.
The capital budget also stood well above the projected values.
Instead of the projected EUR 1.5 million Euro, the value for last year was EUR 2.5 million.
"This is mainly due to the higher contribution from the administrative budget," said Rothmund.
Because fewer investments were made in the 2012 budgetary year than planned, the reserves also came in higher.
In total, they managed to increase the general contingency reserves by around EUR 2.1 million, to a total of EUR 4.9 million.
Mayor Ralph Gerster thanked Rothmund and its team for the good work.
"A job like this is not something you achieve overnight," said Gerster in praise of the annual financial statement.
He and the Town Councillors are clearly delighted with the good figures.
It may sound like a paradox, but it is precisely these good figures that could soon work out expensive for the citizens.
In the past, a good financial situation meant that the local authorities could do away with high municipal rates.
However, according to Gerster, from time to time this has resulted in subsidies being reduced by the state.
There are prerequisites that must be fulfilled in order to receive these subsidies from various compensation elements.
Among other requirements, the towns and municipalities applying for the subsidies must levy certain municipal rates.
"We have to address the subject of municipal rates, as there are investments to be made in the coming years for which we could do with subsidies," commented Gerster regarding this matter.
Nagold: Hugo Wermter - a choir member for 60 years
Having been a singer for 60 years, Hubert Wermter's story with the Cäcilia Male Choral Society is almost twice as long as that of the Autumn Festival, during which he was ceremonially honoured.
As per usual, Hubert Wermter stood on the stage in the colours of his male voice choir.
Even after 60 years he still finds great pleasure from singing with the choir, which has achieved much more than popularity during this period.
Wermter has also been active within the association, serving as a member of the committee for 28 years, among other roles.
For his commitment and loyalty to the organisation, he has also received several awards: Jörg Kohr, Lay Pastor acting on behalf of the Cäcilian Association of Rottenburg-Stuttgart, presented him with an Association Certificate and a letter of commendation signed by Bishop Gebhard Fürst - the choir also serves as a church choir.
His choir colleagues presented him with a German Choral Association certificate and an engraved pewter plate.
Aside from honouring Hugo, the 31st Autumn Festival progressed as usual: Alongside the Betra Male Voice Choir, the Salzstetten Choral Club, the Baisingen Choral Division and the Local Music Society, the Vollmaringen singers delivered a colourful blend of different choral and song styles, which entertained the 400 or so visitors.
The Vollmaringen Male Voice Choir got things running with atmospheric songs such as "Im Weinparadies" and "Lustig, ihr Brüder".
They had also prepared a short serenade as a tribute to their honorary singer Hubert Wermter - Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart's "Bundeslied".
The Betra Male Voice Choir also sang classic choral pieces such as "Jägerwerben" by Julius Wengert, "Weit, weit weg" by Hubert Goisern and the folk song "Wann du durchgehst durchs Tal".
With its mixed choir and its ladies' ensemble - the "Impulschor" (Impulse Choir), the Salzstetten Choral Club ensured that the female quota was fulfilled at the festival.
The mixed choir carried listeners away to foreign lands with the Neapolitan folksongs "Santa Lucia" and "Eviva Espana" by Antos Gus, while the "Impulschor" also drew on foreign languages: "Liberatio" and "Hey Jude" were included on their programme.
The Choral Division of the Baisingen Sports Club returned to its home ground with "Was isch der Schwob?" by Hans Süssmuth and Robert Pappert's "Bierlied", while the Vollmaringen Music Society provided the crowning musical conclusion.
For children, there was a small auxiliary programme - "Oma Hanne" (Grandma Hanne), a.k.a Hannelore Stollsteimer, performed a 'Kasperl' theater (similar to Punch and Judy) and read some stories, which kept the children entertained throughout the afternoon.
Children's dreams come true
Over the next few days, the nursery schools and day care centres in Zollernalb district will be receiving mail.
The Schwarzwälder Bote (Black Forest Herald), in collaboration with Bauhaus and the Sparkasse Zollernalb Savings Bank, would like to support the institutions in granting their construction and renovation wishes.
Does the nursery school need a new sand box?
All nurseries, day care centres and créches from across the entire Zollernalb district can become involved in the campaign.
If they have a construction or renovation request for their institution, they can register this with the Schwarzwälder Bote.
Get creative with your children and surprise the judging panel of the Kindergarten-Baustelle (Nursery School-Construction Site) campaign.
A panel consisting of representatives from the Schwarzwälder Bote, Bauhaus and Sparkasse Zollernalb will select three wishes from those submitted.
What are the requirements for participation?
It must be possible to fulfil the wish using construction materials to a maximum value of EUR 2,000 and on one (campaign) day.
Furthermore, the winner must provide a number of hard-working building helpers.
What is the deal with the campaign day and the helpers?
With the support of the Sparkasse Zollernalb, Bauhaus will be providing the materials.
They will be delivered to the nursery schools on an agreed day and should there be assembled/made use of directly by the helpers.
Helpers can include parents, grandparents, friends, organisations and, of course, the teachers and children themselves.
Bad-Dürrheim: A dream comes true for the FC
The official inaugural ceremony for the astro-turf sports field did not wane in significance for the town and the football club, in spite of the cold weather and rain.
Everyone had hoped for more pleasant conditions for the ceremony last Saturday, however the weather gods chose not to cooperate.
So anyone who came without an umbrella, or for whatever reason could not hold onto one, drew the short straw.
This was the case for the musicians who accompanied the ceremony, as well as for a number of speakers.
Thus, FC Chairman Albrecht Schlenker, who spoke of the fulfilment of a dream, also got fairly wet.
His thanks went first and foremost to Mayor Walter Klumpp, who was heavily involved in the realisation of the project, the Town Council, the companies involved and club members who played a part.
Particular mention went out to Lothar Held, Paul Weizenegger, Heiner Gail and Peter Graf.
The spry pensioners laid 400 square metres of flagging for the new paths.
This remarkable voluntary commitment was also honoured by Member of the State Parliament, Karl Rombach.
Further words of greeting were issued to the town Sports Commissioner, Hubert Baier, the District Chairperson of the Southern Baden Football Association, Kuno Kayan, and Friedrich Knorr from the planning office, who announced a donation to the club's youth division.
Mayor Klumpp recalled that weather-related influences in the Spring and Autumn had repeatedly afflicted the original sports field, to such an extent that it could not be played on.
It was way back 15 years ago that solutions to the problem were first considered, when the construction of a third pitch on the football club site or at the secondary school on Salinensee Lake were considered.
Both ideas were rejected.
Six years ago, thoughts turned to laying an astro-turf pitch, which was generally viewed as the perfect solution.
Specific plans were drawn up two years ago, when the FC inherited the Schabelstube in leasehold, promised a contribution of EUR 100,000 for the construction of the pitch and the state approved a subsidy of EUR 104,000.
In October 2012, the Town Council decided to cover the remaining EUR 356,000 of the total cost of EUR 560,000, summarised Klumpp.
Work began on the 68 x 108 metre astro-turf pitch on 4 June.
During the construction phase, which lasted over three months, 3,000 cubic metres of earth were removed, of which half was used for the laying of a dirt bike track.
Union and SPD have continued their coalition negotiations, addressing the topics of internal affairs and justice.
To this end, the competent working group met this morning.
Among other issues, topics discussed included direct democracy, the bribery of MPs and the Federal Police.
During the morning, the Migration and Integration working group also sought to continue its discussions.
Among the issues to be addressed was that of dual nationality, in which regard both sides have opposing ideas.
The SPD would like to put an end to the pressure placed on immigrant children to decide on one nationality - the Union rejects the notion of a dual passport.
Regarding the subject of traffic, which was not on the agenda for this Friday, the SPD substantiated its opposition to a car toll charge promoted by the CSU.
A toll road sticker would amount to a "flat rate fee for frequent drivers and would thus be environmentally counterproductive," explained the SPD negotiator for issues relating to traffic, Florian Pronold, in a letter to his parliamentary group.
There would be a threat of diverted traffic on country roads, which are already accident hotspots.
The introduction of a toll for cars would also only be a first step, in Pronold's eyes.
"There is the risk that the compensation for Germans would be abolished at a later point in time," he said.
Dieter Thomas Kuhn in Stuttgart: The "singing mountain wave" on the open-air stage
Stuttgart - "When will it be summer again?" was actually not the question on people's lips at the Killesberg Open-Air Theatre on Friday evening.
It genuinely was a tropical evening in Stuttgart.
This therefore provided the ideal conditions for pop star, Dieter Thomas Kuhn, and his band.
Click through the image gallery of the performance by the "singing mountain wave".
Car driver seriously injured in accident
A 37-year-old car driver from Aachen was seriously injured in an accident on Thursday evening.
According to information from the police, a 41-year-old from Müsch was travelling in his car on the Kempener bypass in the direction of Grefrath, at around 9.15 p.m..
As he went to turn right onto St. Töniser Straße he failed to see the 37-year-old's oncoming vehicle.
The vehicles collided.
The Aachen resident suffered serious injuries and had to be taken to the hospital for treatment.
Konstanz: Road block following accident on the Schänzle roundabout
According to police, the accident occurred when a 51-year-old driver of a Swiss Seat Ibiza was travelling out of town in the left lane of the two-lane Reichenaustrasse.
Shortly before the Schänzle roundabout he noticed that was in the left-turn lane going in the direction of Stromeyersdorfstraße and moved across to the right lane.
In so doing, he collided with the BMW of a 23-year-old Konstanz resident, travelling in that lane.
The VW Passat of a 19-year-old driver travelling behind the BMW was also damaged.
In total, EUR 15,000 of material damage was caused, announced the police.
The road had to be blocked off while the accident was being investigated, the statement continued.
Vienna Airport abolishes passenger call-outs
Mr. Max Maier, please make your way to Gate 24.
In future, announcements such as this will no longer happen at Vienna International Airport.
The majority of loudspeaker announcements will cease - thus considerably reducing the noise level.
The goal of this adjustment is to create a more relaxing atmosphere.
As airport spokesperson Peter Kleeman announced to Radio Vienna that in adjusting the approach towards announcements, Vienna Airport is following an international trend.
Among others, the airports in Kopenhagen, Frankfurt and Dubai have already done away with the noisy call-outs.
By doing away with these announcements - on average around 200 personal call-outs come through the loudspeakers per day - the atmosphere in the airport should be calmer in future.
"Experience has also shown that these individual announcements are relatively seldom taken notice of, and at the same time, all other information regarding changes to departure gates or flight times are somewhat lost among them," said Kleeman while chatting to the radio broadcaster.
Highland Games in Kaltenhof
Alongside brake van pulling with tractors, there will also be a second contest at the agricultural autumn festival at Kaltenhof from 6 to 8 September.
On Saturday 7 September, the Highland Games will start at 1:30 p.m.
While they are of course a Scottish tradition, they have been given a touch of Swabian colour at the Kaltenhof event grounds.
Teams and individual competitors will be pitted against one another in the disciplines of tossing the caber, horseshoe tossing and bucket carrying.
The caber is four and a half metres long and weighs 25 to 30 kilometres.
"It isn't about the distance," explains organiser Peter Saile.
The log must be thrown vertically, somersault once and then finish lying straight.
This scores maximum points.
In tossing the horseshoe, it all comes down to accuracy.
Horseshoes are thrown onto a peg from a distance of eight metres.
Participants must then prove their skill and strength by carrying a bucket of water 50 metres.
Time is recorded and water quantity measured in a vat at the end.
Two members of each "clan" or team can then take part in the individual competition.
The winners of the team and individual contests receive prizes.
Teams can practice from 10:00 a.m.
Suitable clothing is desirable - for example competitors can wear kilts.
However, Swabian traditional clothing is also permitted.
The judging panel will also award a few bonus points for "outfits".
Registration is open until a few hours prior to the beginning of the competition.
With the Scottish-Swabian Highland Games and the tractor pulling contest, which will begin half an hour beforehand, there promises to be a great deal of action at the event grounds on Saturday.
In the evening, fans of brass band music will be in for a treat of their own.
At 19:00, the "biraböhmische" (a play on words alluding to the regions pear trees, Bohemia, and perhaps their love of beer as well!) wind music group from Schömberg, provide a great evening of entertainment.
The band plays lively polkas and marches.
However, their repertoire also includes emotive waltzes and a full big band sound.
Heinz Koch from Weilen unter den Rinnen will also be there, better known as the 'singing inn keeper and black sausage baron".
In the past, he has appeared at the Christmas market in Dornhan and the Narrenzunft (Fool's Guild event).
On Sunday, the Leinstetten Music Society will entertain audiences with a morning session, with the Böffingen Farmer's Band as guests from 2:00 p.m., and then the "Oldies" will bring the celebrations to a close.
The celebrations will get under way on Friday, with the "Stoppelacker" (Stubble Field) party featuring DJ Ralf.
Other items in the itinerary on Saturday and Sunday include the vintage car and tractor meet and exhibitions by companies on the topic of agriculture and forestry.
Further attractions on Sunday are the corn maze, the craft market and sheep shearing.
Specially for children, there is a petting zoo, "straw bouncy castle", tractor driving (under supervision) and tractor surfing.
The event is organised by the community hall association, the ski club and the "Zündkapsele" (blasting caps) tractor enthusiasts.
An overview of milk and egg alternatives
Vegan nutrition promotes vegetable alternatives to eggs, milk and dairy products.
Mashed tofu with plant cream, for example, serves as a substitute for quark cheese.
The Vegetarian Association will provide further examples on World Vegan Day on 1 November.
On the occasion of World vegan Day on 1 November, the Vegetarian Association of Germany will propose a host of vegan alternatives:
Pure plant margarine is a good alternative to butter, while yoghurt can be replaced by soya yoghurt.
Soya, oat, almond or rice milk can be used in place of milk.
Plant whipping cream can replace traditional whipping cream.
There are also plant alternatives to eggs.
Half a mashed, ripe banana, for example, can replace an egg as a binding agent in a cake.
50 grams of apple sauce or a tablespoon of ground linseed plus three tablespoons of water are also suitable.
A dough becomes fluffy by replacing egg with a mixture of one tablespoon of baking powder, one tablespoon of cornflour and three tablespoons of mineral water, for example.
50 grams of soya yoghurt or silken tofu can also fulfil this purpose.
According to information from the Vegetarian Association, around 800,000 Germans currently have a vegan diet, i.e. a 100% vegetable diet.
Sleepless in New York
On the way to their host families in Weymouth, Massachusetts, the pupils of the Schwarzwald Grammar School got to know the American city of New York.
After an eight-hour flight, they headed straight for Brooklyn Bridge, via which the heart of the city, Manhattan, can be reached on foot.
From here there is a fascinating view of the world-famous skyline, which is particularly impressive in the evening light.
Due to the time difference, the pupils had been on the go for almost 24 hours, however, true to the slogan, "the city never sleeps", the day was rounded off with a trip to Times Square.
In spite of a shutdown, they were able to visit the Statue of Liberty on the second day, and climb the statue on foot.
They then moved on to the Financial District, via Wall Street, to visit the 9/11 memorial.
On the third day, the pupils were able to take in an overview of the fascinating city from the viewing platform of the Empire State Building, enjoying the views from a height of 373 metres.
They then made their way through the hustle and bustle of the New York streets, via the Rockerfeller Center, to Central Park, which provided the perfect opportunity to rest a while in the Autumn sun.
Following a short flight from New York to Boston, the pupils have now arrived with their host families and are experiencing the school day at Weymouth High School.
Once again this year, on Saint Hubert's day, a Hubert mass will be celebrated in the Parish of St. Marien on Hülsbergstrasse.
St. Hubert was, according to legend, a truly ruthless hunter, who converted following a vision and was later appointed Bishop of Lüttich.
Hunting horn group "Jagdreiter Westfalen", under the directorship of Brigitte Kluth, played old, traditional French melodies on parforce horns (natural horns in the key of E flat).
The wind players wear riding clothes, as they provide musical accompaniment mainly for riders, horses and packs of hounds on drag hunts.
The solemn mass is to take place on Sunday 3 November at 11.30 a.m.
The newly designed Opschlag stands out with a new café.
One that invites you to linger a while and to come again.
One that wants to get its name out there.
According to dictionaries, déjà vu is defined as a psychological phenomenon, which expresses itself in the feeling of having already experienced or seen a new situation.
In the case of a visit to the café of the same name at the Opschlag in Kleve County, with a view of the Rhein-Waal University, it doesn't always have to remain a pure déjà vu feeling.
Ultimately, this is precisely the aim of the café with the wonderful name: to make an actual visit and something that can be repeated on a recurring basis, not just theoretically, but tangibly.
Because it is fun and simply beautiful.
A glance into the internal workings at Opschlag 8 gives the onlooker a positive feeling right from the outset.
With its ultra-modern yet cosy café ambience, it looks like a place designed to make you feel good.
The team here, with business founders, Mirjam van der Stelt and Daniel Büttner at the helm, spoils guests with a wide range of coffees and cocktails.
In addition to this, there are delicious cakes or freshly baked baguettes, filled to order.
The owners, both 33 years old, have already made a name for themselves as restaurateurs prior to opening the chic café on the Opschlag: They previously managed the "Art Lounge" in Kranenburg.
By moving to Kleve on the Opschlag, the friendly café lovers hope to reach a wider audience.
Not least through university customers.
"We don't have a specific target group," emphasises Daniel Büttner.
In actual fact, here the pair hope to appeal as much to young students as they do to senior citizens and all age brackets.
Speaking of café lovers...
The two friendly owners are motivated by their love of coffee.
They themselves enjoy the fragrant, hot brew in a variet of formats.
Espresso fan
Daniel Büttner is more of an espresso fan, while Mirjam van der Stelt is the cappuccino drinker.
"And a baguette with it - that's my thing," she revealed to the NRZ.
There have already been two events held in the brightly lit café.
Or perhaps more accurately, one.
This is because the Hafenfest took place more outside than in - Café Déjà Vu did not benefit from it.
However, there was also the Ringelnatz evening.
The two 33-year-olds found it "beautiful, successful and funny".
But it was not for everyone.
Perhaps this is why Daniel Büttner is not a vocal fan of evening events: "You just cannot please everyone".
And with an event, I am always only appealing to those who have expressed an interest in the special event.
For this reason, events will always be an exception to the rule for us.
"We want to cause as little disruption as possible to normal business".
That is to say: Déjà Vu also stands for reliability.
This is with regard to the quality of the products that are offered here, as well as the team and the fantastic setting on the Opschlag in Kleve.
The street that is fast becoming a 'restaurant mile'.
This is to the delight of many Kleve residents, guests from near and far and the students who are discovering the 'restaurant mile', and with it the Café Déjà Vu, for themselves.
Anke Gellert-Helpenstein
A day of thanks with the MGV (Male Choral Society) in Dinker
This year the "Friedrich Wilhelm Dinker" MGV issued an invitation to its 165th anniversary celebration, which 52 guests, active singers and their wives were happy to accept.
In the clubhouse at the "Witteborg" Inn in Dinker, all those present enjoyed the friendly get-together in the name of music.
Traditionally, the anniversary celebration is also always the fitting occasion to bestow honours.
This time around, secretary Rolf Wagener was delighted to receive the special "Singer of the Year" award.
"Not only have you kept countless records for us, but you have also done so much running around for us, and for this we offer our sincere thanks," said Choir Chairman Erich Schlotmann.
The awards for participation in the performances and choir rehearsals by means of the presentation of "activity posies", this year went to Choir Director Dieter Schulze, with 44 attendance marks, followed by Honorary Chairman Horst Pier-Ribbert, the Chairman himself, and last year's "Singer of the Year" Friedrich Winkler, each having attended 42 times.
Fifth place went to Artur Brückner, responsible for organising music copies.
The Board of Directors gave special thanks to the team managed by innkeeper, Ange Pier-Ribbert, which once again delighted those present with a top class menu, and to Gerda Pier-Ribbert for the table decorations.
The "Friedrich-Wilhelm" MGV meets for its regular choir rehearsals in the clubhouse every Tuesday at 19:45.
"New voices that love to sing are more than welcome any time," said Schlotmann.
Even though the SG Achim/Baden has gone four match days without victory, a positive mood is still prevailing within the top flight handball team.
Trainer Tomasz Malmon will not let there be any doubt of this fact.
Everyone is still fully motivated for the task at hand.
That said, I do hope that we finally start winning again.
"I no longer remember how a victory like that tastes," said Malmon, anticipating success for his team at VfL Fredenbeck II.
Even though the third-tier reserves from Fredenbeck are no't exactly in the best form at the moment, Malmon has issued a warning in advance
I trained many of the players myself in the A-Youth.
Consequently, they will be particularly motivated playing against their former coach.
"In addition, we will have to wait and see whether reinforcements from the first team will be there," explained the SG coach.
In any case, if they are to finally get back on the winning track, Malmon's team will have to improve on recent performances.
There have been major problems, primarily in terms of covering and counter attacking.
The team's eye for the goal must be considerably improved.
Therefore, I hope that my players have finally managed to clear their heads during the short break.
Hansjakob back in Freihof once again
100 years ago, Heinrich Hansjakob moved into his retirement home in Haslach, on Sunday his final years in the "Freihof" were brought to life.
The large audience was inspired by the extremely amusing role play.
From his arrival, to his being conferred with honorary citizenship and his death, Alois Kraftzcyk, the scriptwriter and actor portraying Hansjakob, has written an entertaining play, which received great acclaim under the directorship of Cornelia Volk.
Marcus Zagermann, serving as narrator, guided the audience through the ten different scenes, explained circumstances and provided links explaining leaps from his youth to the time when he was approaching retirement.
On 22 October 1913, Hansjakob returned home to his childhood paradise, to his Freihof.
It was there that the role-play began, with Alois Krafczyk shining once again in his famous role as the town's great son.
True to style, he travelled with a two-horse carriage drawn by "Schwarzwälder Füchsen" (Black Forest Chestnut Horses) owned by Erich Becherer from Mühlenbach.
Not only was he received with great applause from the audience, but was also welcomed by his sister Philippine.
Billy Sum-Hermann managed unbelievably well to place herself in the role of the sister and brought the character to life amazingly well, in terms of both her expressions and gestures.
Between the individual scenes, the Mühlenbacher Bauernkapelle played appropriately selected musical pieces, thus rounding off the performance.
The honour of presenting the title of honorary citizen went to Haslach's Mayor, Heinz Winkler, who, together with a section of the Town Council, made an appearance representing the Mayor of Hüttich from back in Hansjakob's day.
The "Dreikönig" singers then made their own appearance, leading Hansjakob to exclaim: "Oh how beautiful, this brings childhood memories of my own time in a Dreikönig group back to life".
With their song, "O Jesulein", they delighted the audience in the Freihof, as did the "Storchentagskinder" with their loud cries of "Heraus, Heraus" .
In his day, Hansjakob expressed his criticism of the institutional church, as well as his concerns regarding the excesses in the rural economy, the consequences of industrialisation and the effects of the war.
He found his place of rest on his native soil, behind his mausoleum on the Brand near Hofstetten.
The role-play ended with the words "A restless spirit finally found rest and returned home forever".
The performance received great applause and many words of praise from the audience.
Basketball: Hopes are growing for the Neckar Riesen (Neckar Giants).
The chances of the relegated Ludwigsburg Budesliga basketball players remaining in the league have improved.
This is because there is to be a wild card procedure, and the Neckar Riesen are now up against one applicant fewer.
The Hamburg Towers basketball project is declining to make an application for a possible stand-in place.
"We will not participate in the wild card process," said former national team player Pascal Roller, who has been putting together the concept for a professional club in the Hansa town since 2012.
However, there was no sigh of relief to be heard from Ludwigsburg.
"We are not concerning ourselves with the wild card process until it is certain that Düsseldorf is not receiving a licence," said boss of the Neckar Riesen Alexander Reil, speaking to our paper.
Newly promoted Düsseldorf Baskets have until 23 May to submit documents to the arbitration panel and prove their financial fitness for the Bundesliga.
However, the Rhineland team have already been refused the licence twice.
The Court of Arbitration is the authority of last resort.
Haigerloch: Focus on the Abendmahlskirche
As the town's contribution to the 150th anniversary of the Protestant Church in Haigerloch, the town's Office of Culture and Tourism is to dedicate the last of this year's public thematic tours on Sunday 27 October to the Abendsmahlskirche (Church of the Holy Communion).
Following a visit to the Nuclear Bunker Museum, the focus will turn to Haigerloch in the period after 1850, when Haigerloch came under Prussian rule.
The crowning glory will be a visit to the Abendmahlskirche.
There the participants of the tour will be told the story of the construction of the church and will gain insight into the development of the Protestant congregation, in what is a Catholic area through and through.
Last but not least, while in the church eyes will also turn to the last supper painting, painted by Friedrich Schüz with the support of Walter Kröll and Georg Halbritter.
It is a faithful reproduction of the famous work Leonardo da Vinci in Milan.
The meeting point for the one and a half hour tour is the Nuclear Bunder Museum, at 3:00 p.m.
Tickets are available from the ticket office at the Nuclear Bunker Museum.
The Haigerloch Town Tourist Office is available for questions and to provide you with information.
Snowden may make further statements in Russia
The former US intelligence expert, Edward Snowden, may make further statements regarding the US espionage scandal from his Russian asylum.
Representatives of the Federal Prosecutor could either submit questions in writing or meet the 30-year-old in person in Russia.
This was reported by the Interfax Agency with reference to groups aware of the situation, which were not named in greater detail.
Such matters are to be clarified at an intergovernmental level, it was stated.
A departure of Snowden from Russia is virtually impossible.
"If this were to happen, he would lose his status as a refugee," said the Agency, quoting their source.
Because Germany is an ally of the USA, Snowden would be at risk of deportation if he were to travel there, the source continued.
Endurance pays dividends
Six teams battled to become champion at the club tennis tournament.
In the end, it was the endurance of the Maier/Bronner team that decided the final match.
The tennis division of the Sportfreunde Rohrdorf (Rohrdorf Sports Fans) enjoyed perfect weather for the tournament for local clubs and enthusiasts.
The focus of the tournament was on the fun of playing tennis.
Five matches were scheduled for each team, with every team playing one match against all the others.
The matches were doubles matches with a long set up to nine points, or a maximum duration of 45 minutes.
Anja Schlichter managed the tournament
The organisation of the tournament was placed in the trusty hands of Anja Schlichter, who was supported by Carmen Müller and Inga Kronemeyer.
After the first three matches and a lunch break with pasta, the tournament moved into the crucial phase.
The favourites, Andre Maier/Matthias Bronner, were tied with Michael Klippel and Sadmin Osmicic (both teams from the SG Rohrweiler), meaning that the last two games had to produce a victor.
At the awards ceremony, Carmen Müller finally had the pleasure of presenting the Challenge Cup to Andre Maier and Matthias Bronner, who had shown the greatest staying power on the final leg.
Second place was taken by the Michael Klippel / Sadmin Osmicic partnership.
Bronze went to Rainer and Bernd Maier of the Asphaltriecher team.
In the late afternoon sun, accompanied by coffee and cake, the tournament drew to a successful close.
On the last weekend in August, the Vogtsbauernhof Black Forest Open Air Museum in Gutach near Hornberg will once again be firmly in the hands of children.
Traditionally, the museum welcomes visitors on a Saturday and Sunday, this year on on 24 and 25 August, to a colourful party for children and families as part of the summer holiday programme, with numerous participation activities and events.
"On both days, adults and children alike can learn various traditional handicrafts," said the press release.
Whether producing soap, turning candles, felting or making silk, there is a suitable activity whatever your age.
The children will receive help from regional artisans, present from 11.00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m.
Activities will also be taking place in the museum workshop.
The young guests will be able to demonstrate their manual skills building cuckoo pipes, water wheels or spinning tops.
The host of old games, such as wheelbarrow racing or walking on stilts, promises plenty of fun.
Here speed and coordination are the order of the day.
For any miniature detectives, the open air museum will be offering a mystery tour through the museum on Saturday and Sunday, at midday and 2.00 p.m. respectively.
On a tour of the premises, the children will have to work out which stories are true and which have been made up.
In addition, visitors will have the special opportunity to get to know the open air museum on a carriage journey drawn by Black Forest Chestnut horses.
It is not just horses that can be found and admired on the grounds, but many other animals such as sheep, goats, cows and chickens as well.
On the Sunday the children will also be able to enjoy the clown, Otsch, who will be doing pranks with the museum guests from 11.00 a.m.
Meanwhile, a cosy and magical alternative will be provided by Hermann Büttner.
The story-teller will be taking the younger guests to the wonderful world of fairytale at 11.00 a.m., 1:00 p.m. and 3:00 p.m.
The traditional children's dance group from Gutach will also be performing at 11:30 a.m.
Furthermore, on both event days, from 11.00 a.m. until 5.00 p.m., numerous artisans such as the broom maker, the sewer, the spinner, the weaver and the baker will be letting visitors look over their shoulders.
So, visitors to the open air museum can expect a varied holiday programme right through to the end of the summer holidays in Baden-Wuerttemberg.
In a small town in New Zealand, Burt Munro is considered a lovable oddball, all because he resolved to compete in a race in America with his 1920 motorbike.
In spite of his heart defect, Burt could not be deterred from pursuing his dream.
With his savings, a few donations and a mortgage on his old workshop, he set off to Los Angeles by ship.
The film will be followed by coffee, tea and cake.
Piercing beep disturbs residents
Rhenus Midgard has also invested highly in land
They stockpile the coal that arrives on ships.
At the same time, the company also has other irons in the fire at the location.
Besides coal imports, Rhenus Midgard is also active in the field of wind park logistics, among other ventures.
The coals shimmer black in the storage yard in front of the embankment.
Here two huge blue stacker and reclaimer machines distribute or load the coals as required.
With each movement of the handling machines, a shrill warning noise rings out over the site.
"The signals are for the purpose of security and are legally prescribed," said Matthias Schrell, Managing Director of Rhenus Midgard in Wilhelmshaven.
Unfortunately, in the event of unfavourable wind, they can be heard from far away - and as a result there have already been a number of complaints from people from the north of the town.
The 40-year-old said that he is taking the complaints very seriously and has therefore been in touch with those affected.
In close consultation with the authorities, we are now in a position to make the warning signals quieter by means of the implementation of technical measures.
In future he will also seek open dialogue with neighbours.
For Matthias Schrell has some further plans at the location.
With the construction of the Lower Saxony Bridge, Rhenus Midgard is continuing to focus on coal exports for power stations and is one of the major powers in this sector in Europe.
Thanks to the mooring basin to the front of the terminal, sunken to a depth of 18.5 metres, it has for some time now been possible to unload Capesize bulk carriers here.
"In terms of handling, this year we hope to break the 3 million tonne mark," said Schrell.
Alongside the local Eon power plant, the imported coals also go to power plants inland.
When the GDF-Suez plant is added to the network, around 5 million tonnes of coal imports per year will be realistic.
The three ship unloaders on the bridge and the second transport belt could see this rise to 10 million.
Bavaria's basketball players optimistic in spite of first defeat.
Even their first defeat in the Euroleague could not curtail the huge optimism of the FC Bayern München Basketballers.
"No-one can stop us believing that we can win, even against the best team in Europe over the last two years," assessed Bayern coach Svetislav Pesic following the unfortunate 83:88 (39:47) defeat to title defenders Olympiakos Piräus on Thursday evening.
We have delivered a message: Basketball also exists in Munich!
In their first three appearances in the European top flight, the Munich team put in a good performance for long periods, but in the crucial phases were not sufficiently focussed.
Initially the guests managed to turn a 15-point deficit into a lead, with 13 minutes to go, before Piräus was able to turn the game around once again.
"We fought back incredibly well against the two-time Euroleague champions, but then once again made careless mistakes.
We are proud of our performance, but we want to win every game.
Malcolm Delaney and Nihad Djedovic were the most successful strikers for the Munich team, who had celebrated clear wins against the Italian Series champions Montepaschi Siena, and the Polish title-holders, Zielona Góra, in their first two games.
Iran satisfied with the nuclear negotiations process
Iran has expressed satisfaction with the negotiation process, one week before the next nuclear meeting with the five UN veto powers and Germany.
"After many years, we have now reached an agreement with the International Nuclear Energy Authorities to clear up the differences from past years," wrote Foreign Minister Mohammed Dschawad Sarif on his Facebook page.
It will without doubt be a long path, but the chief nuclear negotiator is satisfied with the negotiation process and is also optimistic that both sides will come to a solution in the end.
Drama in Uruguay: Boys kill playmate with machetes
Two children have confessed to the murder of an 11-year-old in Uruguay.
The two boys, aged 14 and 12, had invited their victim to go bird hunting with them.
On Tuesday, armed with machetes and knives, they stabbed the 11-year-old to death and threw the body into a well, reported the "El País" newspaper on Thursday.
They then went and played football in front of their homes in a working class district.
The body was found the following night in the village of Cerro Pelado, 15 kilometres to the north of the exclusive beach resort of Punta del Este.
A five year-old half-sister of the younger offender, who they took with them, was to make a statement as an alibi, stating that she was sexually assaulted by the boy.
However, when the girl described the progression of events to the police without mentioning an attack against herself, the two boys confessed to the pre-meditated murder of the 11-year-old.
The older of the pair cited a rivalry on the football field as the motive.
He was provisionally taken to a psychiatric young offenders institute.
Pimp must go to prison
The District Court of Constance has condemned a 33-year-old man from St. Georgen to three and a half years in prison for exploitative human trafficking, pimping, issuing threats and grievous bodily harm.
The former German soldier who, following two tours in Afghanistan, had worked as a doorman, made a confession within the context of a plea-bargaining procedure.
According to the confession, on five occasions he got to know women via Internet or telephone contacts, who he then sent out onto the streets against their will after a few weeks.
He broke any resistance by means of violence and the issuing of threats.
He kept the income from women, some of whom worked for him for years.
He prevented the women from making contact with the outside world by confiscating their mobile phones and SIM cards.
Together with an accomplice, who procured the women, he brought them to various brothels in the south-west.
There he had them monitored to some extent, in order to control their income.
Appearing before the court, the accused initially claimed that he was suffering from severe trauma after colleagues serving alongside him in Afghanistan had lost their lives in an explosion.
Once a psychiatric expert had cast considerable doubt on him suffering from any psychiatric condition, and thus on his limited culpability, the 33-year-old made a full confession.
The court did not have to question any more of the female victims.
As an official from the Criminal Investigation Department reported, following the first conviction achieved using telephone surveillance measures, at least four further cases of exploitative human trafficking could be identified.
The intercepted conversations were characterised by a high level of aggression.
In subsequent hearings, the victims confirmed their ordeal.
A further witness, whereby one of the woman had suffered blue bruises all over her body, is yet to make a statement.
This is a case of a "completely broken personality", that views the violence and exploitation in this field as normal.
Yesterday the accused expressed regret for his behaviour.
"I have removed myself from these circles and hope to lead a completely normal life following my imprisonment," he stated.
On the happiness of dreaming camels
Happiness is an oasis that only dreaming camels manage to reach
It was with this piece of Bedouin wisdom that the first ever chairman Wolfgang Henne described the history and fascination behind the "Helping Hands" society.
Saturday evening saw the celebration of the tenth birthday of the organisation, which can already look back on impressive results.
Founding Chairman Henne reported in depth on the work of the organisation.
In 2004, he visited the Cheijk-Zajed Hospital in Nouakchott in Mauritania for the first time.
As a result, an important collaboration was developed and the gynaecologist, Hanne, has performed countless operations on several journeys to the location.
During the speech, images from the trips were shown on a large screen, in order to give the guests at the anniversary event an insight into the initiatives mentioned.
The organisation's desert vehicle was also shown.
It is a former federal border protection vehicle.
Rainer Prewo, the former Lord Mayor of Nagold, made the suggestion of equipping this vehicle with a photovoltaic system and, according to Henne, he is now planning to assume an advisory role within the organisation.
In 2008, the Schleeh carpentry company from Baiersbronn built the hospital station in Socogim, a poor district on the edge of the Capital, in the record time of less than one week - free of charge.
Henne also mentioned a new mother and child hospital in Nouakchott
This is particularly interesting at a time when Nagold is set to do away with its maternity clinic.
You learn a great deal working as a doctor in Africa, said Henne, for example that you should slow down to avoid burn-out.
Due to the political unrest in the country, it has not been possible to make as many journeys as planned, but for this reason, many local doctors have come to Germany, to sit in on lectures on a variety of topics.
In addition, containers with materials are regularly sent to Africa, for example in March of this year when medical devices, medicines, bandaging material, hospital beds and spectacles were sent.
Co-initiator Hans-Joachim Fuchtel himself provided plenty of local colour, telling of Mercedes vehicles in Mauritania converted into mobile goat stalls and sharing the experiences of the Stammheim musicians, who traditionally support the organisation on their trips to Mauritania.
He identified his personal motivation as being his work in the area of auditing as a young member of parliament.
When it became clear to him how much money is wasted, he decided to help the Africans with controlling of their budget by the people.
Fuchtel also emphasised that a global economy requires global human kindness.
The fact that Africa lies closer than many think should by no means be forgotten.
Africa is not at all that far from Gran Canaria.
In protest against the planned tax on the rich, the French Football Association is set to actually go through with the first strike since 1972.
A mediation meeting comes to an end without resolution.
In the conflict regarding the tax on the wealthy, the government and the professional football association in France have manoeuvred into a cul-de-sac following a failed mediation meeting.
President François Hollande welcomed club and association representatives to Paris' Élysée Palace on Thursday, where he listened to their complaints.
However, he refused to spare the football association from the planned 75% income tax to be imposed on those earning in excess of one million €per year, which every company in the country will have to pay for two years, from 2014.
The opposition also remained adamant.
The strike announced for the end of November will now go ahead, informed the head of the Union of Professional Football Clubs (UCPF), Jean-Pierre Louvel.
The Ligue 1 and Ligue 2 match days scheduled between 29 November and 2 December will thus be cancelled.
Gechingen: Absolute protection not possible
"We want to involve the residents in the planning at as early a stage as possible," said Mayor Jens Häußler, opening the citizen's information event regarding the flood protection concept in Gechingen.
Around 80 participants came to the Gemeindehalle (community hall) to have the planned measures explained to them, to express their concerns and submit ideas.
Häußler made clear: "The final decisions will be made by the members of the Town Council".
Häußler commented that the flood that found Gechingen unprepared on 15 May 2009, was a decisive event in raising the question of protective measures for the future.
A river basin study was commissioned in collaboration with the neighbouring community of Aidlingen, which now forms the basis for the flood protection concept in Gechingen.
"The goal is the protection of as many developed plots of land as possible," said Häußler.
The basis for the plans is the need for protection against expected floods, which statistically occurs every 100 years, according to the German Weather Service.
Climate change is taken into account in the form of an allowance of 15 per cent.
In expert circles this is referred to as "HQ 100aKlima".
The masses of water that caused considerable damage in Gechingen in 2009 was equivalent to a 1,000-year flood.
"There is no such thing as absolute protection, but we can attempt to make a relative improvement," said Häußler.
In order to achieve HQ 100aKlima protection, around four million €must be invested in Gechingen, whereby the town can count on a State subsidy of around 70 per cent.
However, Häußler indicated that the funding would only be provided if an overall concept is developed.
In order to develop such a concept, the town is reliant on the cooperation of its citizens.
A complex planning and approval procedure must be completed.
In a best case scenario, implementation could begin in 2016.
Among other measures, the protection concept, which (we reported) has already been presented to the Town Council during the past week, plans local measures in the tributary to the River Irm, running from the Stammheim Valley.
In conjunction with the presentation of the flood protection concept, the participants made use of the opportunity to submit their concerns.
Among others, the question was raised as to why embankments and detention reservoirs are no longer planned to protect the location.
Gregor Kühn, technical planner at the commissioned engineering company, Hügelsheim-based 'Wald und Corbe', who presented the concept, emphasised that it required the interplay of all proposed measures, in order that their sum might achieve the desired goal.
Furthermore, the most economic solution must be found, said Joachim Wald of Wald und Corbe.
There was resentment among local residents of the old town, who have repeatedly to suffer as a result of the overflowing of the canal network, even during normal thunderstorms.
The problem is known to the administrative department and initial measures have already been taken.
However, Häußler indicated that the guidelines for canal systems are different to those for flood protection, and these must not be confused.
The town is obliged to design the canal network in such a way that it can withstand rainfall events every two to three years.
To make the sewerage channels wider would gobble up millions.
Persons seriously injured following collision
Early on Friday afternoon, two car drivers were seriously injured in a head-on collision on Landesstraße 44 (a rural road).
The police completely blocked off the road immediately, but initially could not make much comment on the cause of the accident.
However, they did mention that there were various witness statements that first had to be assessed.
What is certain is that the 19-year-old female driver of a VW Golf was driving in the direction of Revensdorf and the 38-year-old man from Gettorf came towards her in his Hyundai.
The two vehicles collided, whereby the woman was so severely stuck that it took the fire service almost half an hour to free her from the vehicle wreckage.
Initially the actual cause of the accident remained unclear.
Both unfortunate parties were taken to nearby hospitals.
The road remained fully blocked off for around two hours.
You could call him the Dostoevsky of the USA.
Philip K. Dick was a God seeker, a metaphysician, and to a certain extent his novels and stories also feature recurring themes.
The external likeness is astounding: the piercing eyes, the beard, the high forehead.
And so, as Fyodor M. Dostoevsky - with his massive oeuvre - is considered the revealer and apologist of the Russian soul, Philip K. Dick is considered an American prophet, who is certainly highly esteemed within his own native country.
Some titles have been released by the Heyne Verlag publishing house,the 'Haffman's cassette' featuring 118 stories was distributed by Zweitaudenseins.
Dick illustrates America - the kingdom of breathtaking technical progress, paired with paranoia, a fixation on security and the belief of having been chosen.
Dick had 'God experiences', and his later books read like a mixture of the Book of Revelation and a computer manual.
Perhaps he was crazy, or perhaps drugs had affected his brain.
He realised, early on, that computers are divinities.
He wrote a 'Theology of the Computer' and questioned what separates humans from the machine, the creator from the creation.
That is the "Blade Runner" problem.
Killing.
A master of science fiction.
A fantastic writer.
His stories have inspired film producers such as Ridley Scott, Paul Verhoeven and Steven Spielberg.
The latter story is now particularly significant.
"Minority Report" originates from the year 1956, and exudes the scent of the Cold War and the McCarthy Tribunal.
Here the principle of the "Pre-Crime" is developed, i.e. something that is now more or less official doctrine within the White House.
In Dick's world, which is alarmingly similar to our own, mutants look into the future - and the police have access to this insight.
"We arrest individuals who've broken no law," says the government official.
"We get to them first, before they can commit an act of violence".
And: "In our society we have no major crimes, but we do have a detention camp full of would-be criminals". They read time streams.
They assume that bad things are going to happen and prevent the criminal thought turning into action.
Dick's tale acts as a blueprint for the anti-terror laws and the phone tapping madness of the NSA.
Anticipation of attack: This is also how Obama's drone philosophy and practices work.
However, Dick's story is not yet finished.
The Police Chief argues that there is no more division of power, the military controls daily life - and what is left of the State.
Then the watcher is himself being watched and is convicted of a future crime.
The system slips up.
It is perfect, but it lies.
It devises its own conditions.
It not only accepts errors and victims, but builds itself on them.
The system creates the threat that it is fighting against.
To read Philip K. Dick means to get closer to the truth, time and time again.
Issuing statements regarding the Merkel spying scandal from Russia
The former US intelligence expert, Edward Snowden, may make further statements regarding the US espionage scandal involving Federal Chancellor, Angela Merkel, from his Russian asylum.
Representatives of the German Federal Prosecutor's Office could either submit questions in writing or meet the 30-year-old in person in Russia, reported the Interfax Agency.
Green Party parliament representative, Hans-Christian Ströbele, was yesterday the first German politician to meet with Snowden in Moscow, to discuss the scandal with him.
Hechingen: Trade fair provides the answers to wedding questions
"Marriage is and remains the most important journey of discovery a person can undertake," said the philosopher Sören Kierkegaard.
Tips, at least as to how the wedding celebration can be a success, have now been given at a special trade fair in the Domäne in Hechingen.
Important suppliers of all wedding-related products and services were represented.
A trend: The retro look is back once again.
This begins with the wedding clothing.
White is a must, best muted or in cream.
At the front, dresses with numerous ruffles and embroidery are in, often with a veil, while to the rear they run down the back and often end in a train.
However, opinions differ, as Stefanie Koch from the Modehaus Kleidermüller emphasised.
For men, suits with a waistcoat and neckerchief are most popular, although some people do choose cream or brown combinations.
Selecting the venue is important, it was explained.
Plain adjoining rooms are not ideal, the ambience should be special.
In this regard, the Domäne drew attention to their own facilities in the carriage house.
Uwe Link has an offer for anyone who wants to set off in a carriage.
"However, carriages are also popular for hen parties," he commented.
People were also on the lookout for romantic ideas for invitations, flower arrangements and wedding photographs.
The "After-Wedding Photo" is becoming increasingly fashionable - that is, series of pictures taken a few days after the celebration, at special locations, preferably in front of waterfalls or the like, but in full wedding clothing, explained Elisabeth Keidel.
Many other details for a successful wedding were presented in the Domäne on Sunday.
Flower arrangements, rings, wedding tables, cakes and also a magician, such as Marko Ripperger, who can entertain guests with style.
The correct cosmetics and nail care mustn't be forgotten.
Everything you need for an unforgettable celebration.
Dog-lovers victorious
Once again the athletes from the Bitz dog-lovers association were victorious at a Rally Obedience Tournament.
Achim Scherrenbacher started things off in Kandel with two dogs; with his bitch Sandy he achieved 94 points in the Beginners class and thus took fifth place, while with 15-month-old Marley he took twelfth place with 87 points.
With her dog Woody competing in the Class 1 competition, Susi Höpp was subject to the critical scrutiny of the judge.
Unknown attackers injure girl with shots fired from car
Unknown attackers have injured a twelve-year-old girl in Saxony-Anhalt when firing shots from a car.
The assailants fired on a group of children on Thursday evening in Genthin, presumably with an air gun.
This was announced by the police in Burg.
The girl suffered minor injury to her left calf.
Rescue workers took the girl to the hospital.
The shots came from a small car, which drove past a group of six children and suddenly stopped.
Witnesses saw two people sitting in the car.
The assailants also fired shots at a bus stop.
A pane of glass was shattered.
They then drove away.
The Criminal Investigation Department is investigating the matter, it was stated on Friday.
Thus far, the Kempten Police Department can look back on a calm Halloween night.
The authorities were only called out twice to deal with children throwing eggs against houses.
Because the home owners realised this immediately, the egg remnants could be cleaned off at once, meaning that no material damage occurred.
Furthermore, in the town centre area, while a few fireworks were set off, no material damage was caused here either.
The residents of the Bischof-Freundorfer-Weg reported that a car was wrapped in toilet paper and its wheel trims stolen.
However, the man found all his wheel trims nearby prior to the police arriving, on account of which no further police involvement was required.
Living with a future-oriented perspective
If truth be told, Waltraud Ries, lives a dreamy life.
Her house is located in a peaceful neighbourhood in Stuttgart, with plenty of greenery, an old tree population, nice neighbours and not too much traffic.
She is only a few minutes from the city centre using public transport.
"Hopefully you aren't afraid of spiders?" asks Waltraud Ries, pointing out a large spider on the door frame.
I have been looking for a new home for my husband and myself for some time now.
But you know how difficult that is in Stuttgart.
However, the reason for the desire to move is not arachnophobia, but rather the fear of not being able to manage the large number of steps up to their house, and inside their home in their old age, she explained.
Furthermore: Since undergoing a meniscus operation, the lady, in her mid-fifties, has had to experience for herself what it means to move from floor to floor with a disability.
Only recently, she released a book on the subject of "Living happily in old age - Which type of property is the best for me?".
"Our home is the best example of a property that simply doesn't work in old age," she begins to recount.
When she moved to the maisonette with her husband 20 years ago, it was simply just a pretty apartment in green surroundings.
Now, in her mid-fifties, Waltraud Ries has different thoughts about it.
However, she is aware that she is one of the few people to actually deal with the topic of 'living in old age'.
The majority of people put it to the back of their minds for as long as possible.
Only other people get old, she says, smirking.
Only when the psychological strain becomes severe do people give it consideration.
"But at this stage it can be too late," said Ries.
In her book, the interior decorator presents 17 housing models for independent living in old age.
"However, which type of residence you choose is always a personal decision," she explains.
There is no solution to overcoming old age.
Even if you can afford to spend your retirement in Tuscany or Brittany, you should always take the fact that you may become ill into consideration.
And: 'Without a sound knowledge of the local language, you can even become lonely when living the dolce vita,' added the author, providing food for thought for those seeking to move abroad.
Her models include classic care models, alternative living arrangements and the often-mentioned pensioners' living community.
In old age everyone has their quirks and ticks.
'However, this type of residential community would not be for me,' she commented with a wink.
Definitely nothing like student accommodation with a shared bathroom and kitchen.
'In old age you simply need your own space to withdraw to,' said Ries.
However, the author does not wish to rule out the possibility that a pensioners' residential community can work.
However, it must operate differently to the classic student digs.
And sometimes you also just want your peace and quiet,' she believes.
With this opinion she is at least not alone in the State Capital.
The experience of Theresa Rütten, head of the citizen's Life in Old Age service in the State Capital, is also that 'the majority of old people in Stuttgart want to remain in their own homes for as long as possible'.
Her agency agency advises people on the topic of 'growing old'.
Therefore the experience of the Stiftung Warentest consumer study is also that elderly people in particular would accept inconveniences and limitations just to be able to remain in their usual environment.
Nowadays there are many possibilities for designing the house or apartment in such a way as to be barrier-free.
Ries recommends that all those working on the age-appropriate renovation of their house or apartment first seek out in-depth information and don't simply use the first tradesman that comes along.
Nowadays there are specialists in renovation to suit the needs of the elderly.
Even in the case of rental apartments some landlords can have this work carried out, even if it is just a matter of raising the level of the toilet seat, clarified the interior designer.
However, it is not always the case that your existing apartment can be made age-appropriate and therefore barrier-free, even if it is as beautiful as ever.
Waltraud Ries had to go through this experience herself.
You could of course install a stair lift inside the apartment, but the cobbled path up to the door of the apartment, featuring a number of steps would be a much greater hindrance.
She will keep looking until she has found the ideal property for herself and her husband.
She is more afraid of the move than of the spider on her front door.
The USA still want to prosecute Snowden
The USA have not changed their position regarding the former US Secret Service employee Edward Snowden.
He is still accused of passing on secret information without authorisation.
He must therefore face criminal proceedings in the USA, said the spokesperson for the US Foreign Office, Jennifer Psaki, in Washington.
Even the most recent statements from Snowden will not change this fact.
Following a recent meeting with Snowden in Moscow, German Green Party politician Hans-Christian Ströbele appealed to the USA not to continue to threaten him with prosecution.
Psaki emphasised that Ströbele's comments were the views of a parliamentarian, and not those of a German government member.
Secret Service whistleblower, Edward Snowden is, in principle, willing to hold a discussion with the German authorities.
However, he first wishes for his situation to be clarified.
This was made clear by the former NSA employee, currently sought by the USA, in an open letter that Green Party politician Hans-Christian Ströbele made public on Friday following a meeting with Snowden, and passed on to the Federal Government, the Federal Parliament and the Federal Public Prosecutor General.
The letter was purported to have been worded as follows:
To whom it may concern,
I have been invited to write to you regarding your investigation of mass surveillance.
I am Edward Joseph Snowden, formerly employed through contracts or direct hire as a technical expert for the United States National Security Agency, and Defense Intelligence Agency.
In the course of my service to these organizations, I believe I witnessed systemic violations of law by my government that created a moral duty to act.
As a result of reporting these concerns, I have faced a severe and sustained campaign of persecution that forced me from my family and home.
I am currently living in exile under a grant of temporary asylum in the Russian Federation in accordance with international law.
I am heartened by the response to my act of political expression, in both the United States and beyond.
Citizens around the world as well as high officials - including in the United States - have judged the revelation of an unaccountable system of pervasive surveillance to be a public service.
These spying revelations have resulted in the proposal of many new laws and policies to address formerly concealed abuses of the public trust.
The benefits to society of this growing knowledge are becoming increasingly clear at the same time that claimed risks are being shown to have been mitigated.
Though the outcome of my efforts has been demonstrably positive, my government continues to treat dissent as defection, and seeks to criminalize political speech with felony charges that provide no defence.
However, speaking the truth is not a crime.
I am confident that with the support of the international community, the government of the United States will abandon this harmful behaviour.
I hope that when the difficulties of this humanitarian situation have been resolved, I will be able to cooperate in the responsible finding of facts regarding reports in the media, particularly with regard to the truth and authenticity of documents, as appropriate and in accordance with the law.
I look forward to speaking with you in your country when the situation is resolved, and thank you for your efforts in upholding the international laws that protect us all.
Edward Snowden, as witnessed by Hans-Christian Ströbele
A kindergarten has found a private buyer
"The building is in good hands," said Winterlingen's Mayor Michael Maier.
The local authorities have sold the former Kindergarten on Gartenstraße to a private buyer.
The Town Council consented to the sale in its most recent meeting, during the part of the meeting that was not open to the public.
The building changed hands for an "appropriate" price.
"The local authorities are satisfied," emphasised Maier.
EUR 100,000 have been added to the local budget.
It is not yet clear how the new owner will use the former Kindergarten.
The Mayor considers it the right decision that Winterlingen has handed over responsibility for the building to someone else before the winter, and thus will no longer have to pay for the upkeep of the building, such as heating it, tending to the garden and clearing the pavement.
"This expense has now been offloaded," Maier was glad to say.
Open-air concert accompanied by high summer temperatures.
The Hammereisenbach Music Society gave an open-air concert on the terrace of the Hammer Guest House.
When conductor, Bianca Willmann, raised the baton at 7:30 p.m., the thermometer was still reading 25 degrees.
Around 50 listeners enjoyed the sounds of the Hammrich musicians.
Chairperson, Manuela Honeck, provided explanation to accompany the pieces.
In so doing, Honeck thanked all those who had helped successfully manage the first Musikerhock.
What happens with my e-mail when in transit?
E-mail is short for electronic mail.
Are there technical measures to maintain privacy of correspondence, similar to that of the traditional postal service, implemented into the design of this Internet-based service?
When designing the early Internet services, the focus lay on making communication possible.
Thus, when developing the underlying technical protocols, no attention was given to creating a stable foundation for the interception-proof exchange of mail.
For this reason, a traditional email is more like an open postcard than a sealed letter.
When user "Anna" sends an email to "Benni", are the pair's computers then directly connected?
Anna's email program or browser first sends the mail to her service provider's mail server.
If she has a Gmail account, for example, this would be Google.
This mail server sends the content to the provider that Benni uses.
En route, the mail can pass through any number of other servers on the Internet.
Benni can then call up the content from his provider.
Are traditional e-mails read by third parties on their journey through the net?
The majority of e-mails are read several times by software robots en route to the recipient.
Checks are generally carried out by the sender's provider as to whether the mail contains malware as an attachment.
A virus check is also carried out on the recipient systems.
In addition, the providers check whether it is nuisance or unwanted spam mail, which are deleted immediately or at least sorted into a spam folder.
Do the robots have other tasks?
In the case of systems such as Gmail, the robots also identify the information that Google requires for displaying context-based advertising.
If Anna and Benni communicate about their upcoming holiday travels via Gmail, Google can display corresponding links to holiday offers.
Do unknown individuals also read the e-mails?
The probability of unauthorised persons reading a mail is extremely low.
However, theoretically, it is possible.
Within companies, administrators are often able to read electronic mail that is sent.
Law enforcement authorities and Secret Services also have legal authorisation to intercept or take note of e-mails.
This may include potential illegal spying activities.
Is it possible to protect e-mails against being read?
With an encryption using the OpenPGP standard, an e-mail can be effectively protected against being read.
With great technical effort, it is also possible to conceal the metadata of email communication so that it is not even possible to tell who is communicating with whom.
How important are Yahoo and Google within the e-mail market in Germany?
According to a study conducted by Convios Consulting in August 2013, among the main mail services in private use, Yahoo and Google play only a minor role.
While the number of Yahoo Mail accounts has fallen recently, Google's Gmail managed to grow considerably.
Mother buried in shallow forest grave and pension stolen
When his elderly mother died, a man from Wolfsburg devised a plan.
He buried the deceased in a forest - and continued to collect her pension and care allowance.
According to police investigations, a 67-year-old Wolfsburg resident buried his dead mother in the woods in order that he might continue to collect her pension and care allowance.
He first covered up the death of the 89-year-old and then pocketed the money for more than a year and a half.
The 67-year-old must now face charges of fraud, said a spokesperson on Friday.
According to the statement, the man hid the woman in a forest near Helmstedt.
The man was already under suspicion back in May: At that time the fact that medications for his care-reliant mother were no longer required drew suspicion.
The pensioner told investigators that his mother had travelled to Spain.
The officials found this strange and so continued to investigate.
It was discovered that the mother and son had lived in the same residence for more than 15 years and that he had cared for her in her final days.
The 67-year-old finally acknowledged the death of his mother.
According to police, an autopsy showed no evidence of any capital offence.
After six match days, TSV Morsum are yet to score a single point in the Handball Association League.
And of all possible times, Ingo Ehler's team has a derby match against TSV Daverden tomorrow, which celebrated their first victory last week.
The season begins afresh for us with this match.
"I hope that we finally have our heads clear," commented Ehlers, remaining cautiously optimistic.
For this match he finally has his complete squad available, with the exception of Hendrick Blohme who is out with long-term injury.
Like us, Daverden place emphasis on high tempo play.
For this reason, we must keep our errors to a minimum.
However, the top priority is to improve our cover play, which has recently left much to be desired.
Daverden's coach Thomas Panitz comes across as much more relaxed following his team's first victory of the season against Nordhorn.
The match was of course a indication of what we are capable of.
However, it by no means makes us favourites, as anything can happen in the derby.
Nonetheless, Panitz is now looking to come up with the goods in Morsum and thus start a winning streak.
Jan-Malte Jodat will not be playing.
Thus, A-Youth player Joost Windßuß, who plays an active part for A-Youth League team HC Bremen, will be celebrating his season début.
Anyone who is not fired up for a game like this should stay at home.
House fire in Helmbrechts: Rescue services retrieve charred body
The fire service were called out to Helmbrechts late on Thursday evening.
A three-bedroom house in the district of Hof catches fire during the night.
Rescue workers retrieve a charred body from the house.
During a fire in Helmbrechts, rescue services found a charred body in a three-bedroom house.
Whether this person was living in the house is as yet unclear, said a police spokesperson in Bayreuth.
Late on Thursday evening, fire broke out on the ground floor of the house.
When the fire service arrived, the flames were already bursting out of a window.
Rescue workers entered the premises and found the body in a bedroom.
This and another bedroom were completely burnt out.
The entire ground floor suffered damage.
There were no other residents at home during the fire, continued the police spokesperson.
For the time being, the house is no longer habitable.
The precise cause of the fire was initially unclear.
Germany's largest national church has launched a campaign advertising the minister's position.
This comes at the same time as a possible shortage of ministers: The Protestant Lutheran Regional Church of Hanover calculates that, as things stand, the current number of around 1,800 pastors will be halved by 2030.
For the young people of today, the career is very attractive and offers good future prospects, said Pastor Mathis Burfien (43) in a conversation with the Protestant Press Service.
It is attractive to be able to determine your own daily working routine.
With Burfien, the regional church has for first time commissioned a minister to work full time, endeavouring to inspire young people to study theology.
At present, fewer and fewer young people are deciding to study theology after their Abitur examinations (equivalent to A levels).
Burfien puts this down to the process of secularisation: "God's voice is quiet, the world is loud".
The job is characterised by great freedom and variety.
I am the master of my own schedule and can therefore turn my focus to what is important to me.
As pastoral workers, ministers can be close to people.
They earn as much as teachers and can make a good living.
Of course wages are higher within the private sector, but on the other hand, theologians have a secure employer.
This would suit the young people of today, as it is not just about your career, but about having a meaningful job as well.
According to information from the Regional Church, which covers three quarters of Lower Saxony, around 60 pastors retire every year.
At the same time, around 40 theology graduates begin as vicars.
In future it may be difficult to fill positions in sparsely populated outlying areas such as Harz, Emsland or Wendland.
Among other initiatives, Burfien wants to organise study days for young people, inviting famous faces who have studied theology.
Theology courses offer broad training.
You can even become Federal President with a theology degree.
Travelling BVB fans created terrible scenes with flares in the Veltins Arena before the district derby against Schalke
Borussia Dortmund announced that there would be serious consequences.
Before Friday's Bundesliga match against VfB Stuttgart, the 'Ultras' responded with silence - initially.
It was an unusual, almost ghostly atmosphere that the fans created until shortly before the kick-off of the Bundesliga match between the German runners-up Borussia Dortmend and VfB Stuttgart, in the Signal Iduna Park.
It was mainly the chants of away fans that could be heard.
The south stand, on the other hand, where the most loyal - and the loudest - of BVB fans stand, was initially unusually quiet: No singing and no battle cries.
The 'Capo's' podium, the individual who usually coordinates the unison chants, remained empty.
And right at the front, on the stand, a single large flag with the text "Stadium Ban Section" blew in the wind.
Only when goalkeeper, Roman Weidenfeller, was the first BVB player to step onto the field, did cheers briefly erupt, as is usually the case.
When his team mates followed, there was loud singing and scarves were waving - but by no means everywhere.
In the central blocks of the south stand, blocks 12 and 13, nothing moved.
Even stadium announcer, Norbert Dickel, speaking once again of the successful results in recent days - the derby victory, the win against Arsenal, the contract extension of coach Jörgen klopp - did not raise spirits.
Just five minutes before kick-off, the Capo climbed onto his podium - and the tension that had been almost tangible up until that point, lifted with a large shout, as Dickel asked for a shout from each section of fans as usual.
As always, the south stand was left until the end, and finally the stand resumed its usual role as the loudest section of the stadium.
And as soon as the vociferous request for "derby winners stand up" came from the south stand upon kick-off, everything was back to normal.
The previous silence was indeed a reaction to the events of previous days.
Immediately before the local district derby against FC Schalke 04, some of the travelling BVB fans fired flares into the crowds of spectators and onto the pitch - and in so doing almost hit goalkeeper Roman Weidenfeller.
The kick-off was delayed on account of the chaotic scenes,
As a result, BVB Chairman Hans Joachim Watzke had invited the heads of the Dortmund Ultras fan group to his office - and if Watzke's words are to be believed, this was a rather uncomfortable meeting for the fan representatives.
"There will be massive impact for the entire Ultra movement," announced the BVB Chairman on Thursday evening at a panel discussion in Frankfurt.
As an immediate measure, Watzke prohibited the Ultras from organising choreography for the home match against VfB Stuttgart.
"I have banned it," he explained.
We cannot ignore the zero tolerance policy regarding pyrotechnics in Saxony.
In addition, the Ultras were given the option of several different punishments - they now have until Tuesday to decide which one to accept.
Otherwise BVB will impose a sanction by the end of next week, said Watzke.
"It will be severe," assured Watzke.
It will be interesting to see the reactions in the south stand then.
NSA siphons data from Google and Yahoo - Snowden wants to help
Secret Service whistleblower, Edward Snowden, has a fundamental interest in helping Germany clarify the increasingly explosive NSA espionage scandal.
According to Green Party MP. Hans-Christian Ströbele, his surprising meeting with Snowden in Russia addressed the conditions under which the former Secret Service employee would make a statement to a German District Attorney or before an investigation committee.
Snowden referred to his complex legal situation, Ströbele said on ARD's "Panorama" programme.
Nothing beats Germany as a property location for national and international investors.
The economic situation is right, and the financing options are fantastic.
This was the message of the 9th 'Immobilientag' (Property Day) organised by the Börsen Zeitung (stock exchange newspaper).
The German property markets are benefiting from the country's economic strength and general conditions which, compared with the rest of Europe, are very competitive.
This was pointed out by Christian Ulbrich, Jones Lang LaSalle CEO for Europe, the Near East and Africa, at the 9th 'Immobilientag' (Property Day) organised by the Börsen Zeitung (stock exchange newspaper).
The extent to which German commercial properties are sought after is evident in the transaction volumes, said Ulbrich.
In the first three quarters of this year, there was an increase of 31% compared to the same period the year before.
In Great Britain, growth stands at just 6%, and in France at 19%.
"Property investments offer an attractive rate of return," said Ulbrich.
The yield gap between properties and federal government bonds is at a historically high level.
Orlando Bloom and Miranda Kerr still love each other
Actors Orlando Bloom and Model Miranda Kerr want to go their separate ways.
However, in an interview, Bloom has said that he and Kerr still love each other.
Miranda Kerr and Orlando Bloom are parents to two-year-old Flynn.
Actor Orlando Bloom announced his separation from his wife, supermodel Miranda Kerr.
In an interview with US journalist Katie Couric, which is to be broadcast on Friday (local time), Bloom said, "sometimes life doesn't go exactly as we plan or hope for".
He and Kerr still love each other, emphasised the 36-year-old.
"We're going to support one another and love each other as parents to Flynn".
Kerr and Bloom have been married since 2010. Their son Flynn was born in 2011.
According to dictionaries, veganism is a sub-category of vegetarianism, yet the two do differ considerably.
For while vegetarians allow themselves to consume cream tarts, ice cream or a strong Edam, these indulgences are off the menu for vegans.
Milk, cheese, egg - alongside avoiding meat and fish, vegans refrain from eating all products of animal origin - even honey is not permitted.
You might ask what is left, however, upon closer inspection the world of vegan nutrition is characterised by great resourcefulness.
"Spreads are very popular," explained Ute Henkelmann the owner of the local health food store, which provides a host of special products for vegans.
Reuben Proctor also likes to visit the store on "Domgasse".
The New Zealander has been vegan for 13 years, and in Lampertheim he can find (almost) everything that he needs to get by. "In 1997 I adjusted my diet and became a vegetarian".
At the turn of the millennium I took the next step and became vegan.
"However, it wasn't just the diet that convinced me, but also my choice of shoes," said Proctor, who prefers artificial leather over normal leather.
He realised that you can also overcome all other daily concerns without animal products.
First and foremost, being vegan is a matter of ethics.
"I don't want animals to have to die for me," said Proctor, expressing the maxim of vegans, which applies to all their consumer behaviour.
Rather than missing burgers, scrambled eggs or gummi bears, the vegan has quickly discovered entirely new products that really inspire him.
"It is a double bonus," says Proctor now, "in actual fact being vegan is not about doing without, it's not about asceticism, but rather it is an enhancement". Regarding the assumption that when you convert your diet you are reducing your choice of meal options, Proctor puts this down to force of habit.
And it is precisely this conditioning that results in many a well-intentioned attempt failing.
"The temptation factor is a decisive factor in causing many to quickly give up, similar to with smoking," says Proctor, providing a comparison.
And he argues: "Certain flavours are not linked to animal produce".
Often it is the herbs or the type of preparation that provide the flavour.
"You can, however, create the same effect in other ways," explains the vegan.
For example, when attending a barbecue party, Proctor brings aubergines, mushrooms and also a few vegan sausages.
He ensures a balanced, varied diet, whereby everything should also have a good hearty flavour.
Of course you want to have something with a bit of bite, that is fair enough.
"It should be tasty, but this doesn't necessarily mean animal-based food," said Proctor.
He has not suffered any damage to his health or eating disorders - another wide-spread assumption.
Converting has had a positive effect for me.
I do not consume any foreign cholesterol and have increased my vitamin intake.
There are top athletes who also have an exclusively vegan diet.
"My blood values are excellent - I have myself checked on a regular basis," revealed Proctor.
Many critics of veganism warn in particular of the lack of vitamin B12.
"Because animals are fed on fodder instead of grazing, it is dubious whether the vitamin B12 content in meat sold in freezers is actually high," commented Proctor.
For vegans there is also the option of taking the co-enzyme in the form of tablets.
"My B12 values are fine," he explained.
Proctor does not have to travel far to buy food.
There are basic foodstuffs available everywhere, and every supermarket now has soya milk and other products.
I can find everything I need locally.
I only purchase special items now and again.
"Many people overlook the fact that even though ready-made vegan products are expensive, it is well-known that this is also the case for "normal" ready-made products.
In any case, the preparation of vegan dishes is much cheaper and less time consuming than commonly assumed.
"In home cooking, there is much to be discovered - with a few minor tweaks you can achieve good, if not sometimes better results," said Proctor.
Margarine in place of butter, a little more baking powder and bicarbonate of soda in place of egg - Proctor has even managed to astonish his in-laws with his vegan cheese cakes.
The vegan adds new spice to family parties.
When you cook together there is a certain dynamic - cooking takes on new value.
"The situations that may arise are as varied as the people themselves," said Proctor.
Of course he has already met with scepticism.
Do you not like my food any more?
"Should I feel bad now because I drink milk?" - as a vegan you have to be tactful in such matters.
"I do not disapprove of people, I am part of this society," said Proctor, explaining that he was not choosing a life of isolation.
And on closer observation, the everyday world does not appear quite so 'un-vegan' - and vegans are not quite as limited in their everyday lives as is commonly assumed.
Fast food is also permitted.
Chips are available everywhere!
"Many doner kebab houses offer falafel, or even vegetarian Yufka," says Proctor.
In a pizzeria he avoids pasta dishes or just orders a pizza without cheese, all just a question of habit.
Restaurants are slowly adapting to things.
"When I began eating a vegan diet 13 years ago, things were even more difficult," says the New Zealander, and he points out: "You have to talk with people, make them aware".
"If enough requests are made, they will perhaps be inclined to expand their menus," he hopes.
There are vegan restaurants opening up, such as the Kombüse in Mannheim or Café Vogelfrei.
Proctor hopes that other restaurants will also have at least one vegan dish on the menu.
Essentially, vegan dishes are for everyone.
Anyone can eat them, they are the exact opposite of exclusive.
"Meat dishes, on the other hand, are exclusive, in the truest sense of the word, as they rule others out," assessed Proctor.
"If you want to avoid food scandals, veganism is a safe way to rule out the majority of scandals from the outset," says Proctor.
However, purchasing vegan products can be difficult to start with.
OInce you come to understand that peanuts, in particular, may also contain animal additives as a colourant, people seem to quickly lose courage when following a code of ethics with so many hurdles and pitfalls.
Therefore, for this reason and others, Reuben Proctor and Lars Thomsen have written a book. "Veganissimo - Tierische Inhaltsstoffe und ihre Alternativen" (Veganissimo - Animal Ingredients and their Alternatives) explains the many ingredients hidden in both foodstuffs and cleaning agents.
"You gradually develop an internal scanner and you know which symbols and logos you have to look out for". Proctor has learned that "it is sometimes better too take small steps rather than to stand still or stumble".
Veganism is an important moral compass, which has an effect on your consciousness.
Perhaps he won't manage to help you break old habits altogether, but at least he manages to teach consumers to critically question their habits.
Stock exchange operator Nasdaq OMX keeps its customers on tenterhooks.
Trading at the Nasdaq Options Market was interrupted on Friday afternoon, German time.
In an announcement, the operator cited technical problems as the reason.
On the other eleven options markets, including two also operated by Nasdaq OMX, business continued as normal.
The most recent incident is the latest in a series of both small and large breakdowns suffered by the stock exchange operator.
As recently as last Tuesday, the Nasdaq indices were not calculated for one hour due to data transfer errors.
In August of this year there were two breakdowns in a single week.
First of all, US investment bank Goldman Sachs sent large quantities of incorrect purchase orders to the options markets due to technical problems.
As a result, the stock exchange operators required almost an entire day to look through and delete the orders.
Two days later, half of all stock dealing in the USA came to a standstill for several hours, due to a computer failure in the Nasdaq exchange.
Furthermore, last year the listing of Facebook on the stock exchange caused quite a furore.
The Nasdaq systems could not cope with the flood of purchase and sales orders, the Exchange Supervisory Authority established at a later date, imposing a record penalty of 10 million dollars on the company.
Konstanz: Cyclist knocks over 63-year-old man
According to the police, the accident occurred on Thursday evening at around 10:00 p.m., when a 26-year-old man was cycling illegally, on the left footpath of the Bahnhofplatz in the direction of Marktstätte, on a ladies bicycle.
According to police, when a 63-year-old man suddenly stepped out of a pub onto the footpath, the cyclist was unable to brake in time.
During the subsequent collision, the pedestrian was thrown against the wall of the building, and then fell onto the ground, suffering a laceration to the head that measured around 15 centimetres in length.
An ambulance team brought the injured man to the clinic for medical treatment.
Hoarding on the Bechtle plot painted
A group belonging to the "Schweizer Wiese" citizen's initiative has given the hoarding on the Bechtle plot on the spa promenade in Bad Herrenalb a face-lift.
In addition, they have cleaned and widened the footpath, a press release announced.
The planned covering of the dilapidated house to the rear of the plot was not permitted for safety reasons, as the premises were at risk of collapsing.
Alfred Abel, who currently manages the site, arranged the 'face-lift' in cooperation with his colleague, Reinhard Domke, from the citizen's initiative.
Before the citizen's initiative project, a banner with the message "We are in favour" was put up.
However, this did little to distract the 20 or so members of the citizen's initiative from their project.
Their motto, on the large billboard stated "We are against unfinished buildings".
In so doing they wanted to point out the danger of even bigger ruins on the Schweizer Wiese - should the huge project one day fail.
Chatting with many people passing by the "construction site", it became clear that many citizens believe the execution of the project would make things much better for the town, although many have the same questions as the citizen's initiative regarding the scale of the planned project.
However, they are beginning to resign themselves as the town continues to stall in providing answers, said a statement from the citizen's initiative.
We have now been told that the public statements made by the Mayor are also having an impact.
In May, in the meeting of the Town Council, he said that he feared for the outcome of the spa should the population vote against the plans for a spa and wellness complex on the Schweizer Wiese in the local referendum.
Some appear utterly frightened by it, others perceive it as a "blatant attempt to blackmail" the population, continued the press release from the citizen's initiative.
The citizen's initiative thanked those who donated paint and all those who lent a hand.
Rangnick scolding for refs: Mane is no diver
As satisfied as Ralf Rangnick is with the present winning form of the Austrian Bundesliga table-toppers, Red Bull Salzburg, the Sporting Director of the "Bulls" expressed equal disappointment with the referees.
"There is currently a dangerous trend, with Mane and Alan being dubbed as 'divers'," he said at a press conference in Salburg on Thursday, in defence of the two tricky offensive players.
The most recent cause for Rangnick's criticism was the yellow card for Mane at 3:0 against Grödig last Sunday, whereby the Senegalese striker was penalised for supposed play acting - admittedly this was not justified, as shown by TV footage.
"A blatant wrong decision," commented Rangnick, who referred to Harkam as being "completely out of his depth".
Harkam also played "his part" in the escalation between Salzburg Coach Roger Schmidt and Grödig Trainer Adi Hütter after the game.
He firmly defended his German compatriot: "In each individual situation I would have behaved in the same way as Roger Schmidt".
Schmidt himself did not wish to have any contact with his colleagues after the skirmish with Hütter.
I do not know why.
"After all, I was the one who was insulted," emphasised the 46-year-old.
However, with regard to the winning run, Rangnick sang his team's praises.
"There are only two words for it: Really good," he stated.
There is not a lot you can criticise.
Most of all, the manner in which the team is playing is impressive.
We must stay composed and keep it up.
There will hardly be any squad changes in the winter transfer window.
There is no major reason to change anything.
"Unless a player comes forward and expresses the desire to leave the club," explained Rangnick.
Norway: Norwegian village lights itself up with huge mirrors
Using huge mirrors, the residents of a Norwegian village have brought light to their dreary valley.
Due to the low level of sunshine, from autumn until spring the village of Rjukan in the Vestfjord valley normally languishes in the shadows of the surrounding mountains.
With three gigantic mirrors, each 45 metres tall, a centuries-old dream came true on Wednesday.
"Finally!', raved Mayor Steinar Bergsland at the inaugural ceremony, televised by broadcaster TV2.
Some valley residents lay back on sun loungers, while others safely put on their sunglasses.
Up until now, those hungry for sunshine in the winter had to travel to a nearby peak by cable car.
Ten years ago, local artist Martin Andersen presented the proposal of directing the sun into the valley using mirrors.
However, this basic idea had been talked of in the location since 1913.
After several years of debate, the Town Council finally approved the project, which cost 5 million krone (around EUR 615,000).
A similar construction has provided sunshine to the Italian alpine resort of Viganella for a number of years.
The post is hardly ever emptied on Sundays
"Many citizens will not yet have noticed that red dots indicating a Sunday post collection are still to be found on many post boxes in the town centre and its districts. However, if you read the small print on the yellow boxes operated by Post AG, you will quickly find out that the boxes are no longer emptied on Sundays and holidays," announced the FDP.
An inquiry by the FDP confirmed this.
Only the post boxes in front of the post office building at Ernst-Ludwig-Straße 36 and at Jakob-Müller-Straße 1 in Hüttenfeld are still emptied.
Whether there are still Sunday collections in Hofheim and Rosengarten is not addressed in the inquiry by the FDP.
The FDP spokesperson for social and youth-related affairs, Fritz Röhrenbeck wants to dig deeper into this.
The Sunday collection is an important postal service, especially in the case of scheduled post.
"The company is radically and unacceptably cutting back on this, despite the price increase for letters in January 2013.
Thomas Bittner, Liberal Party Parliamentary Group and Municipal Association Chairman, is supporting his fellow group members: "What annoys me, is the fact that the collection times have been changed or cancelled on the quiet here".
In so doing, the postal service is miles off the mark when it comes to public accessibility.
"At least the post boxes in the districts of Neuschloß and Rosengarten must still be emptied on Sundays," said Bittner and Röhrenbeck in unison.
It is also the case for the town centre that those citizens in particular who are not mobile must also be able to access a post box with a Sunday collection on foot.
In the Town Parliament, Röhrenbeck asked whether the Town Council was planning discussions with the postal service regarding this matter.
Mayor Erich Maier responded that the postal service had not communicated with Lampertheim.
To the best of his knowledge, however, there is a Sunday collection in Hofheim.
Their party has spoken out in favour of privatisation.
"Decisions will then be made elsewhere," said Maier.
Frankfurt parking fees to increase dramatically
Parking in Frankfurt could soon be noticeably more expensive.
The City Magistrate today discussed a submission by the head of the department for transport, Stefan Majer (Green Party).
According to the proposal, parking fees are to be increased by 50 per cent.
This increase will not, however, be the result of raised prices, but rather the fact that time interval permitted by parking meters and ticketing machines will be reduced from 30 to 20 minutes.
The City Council must reach a decision on this in December.
The Retail Committee of the Frankfurt Chamber of Industry and Commerce believes that this is "not a good idea".
The option of parking right outside their businesses is "an advantage to smaller retailers that must not be underestimated.".
The Verkehrsclub Deutschland (German Traffic Club) is of the opinion that an increase after two decades is "completely appropriate and actually long overdue".
Local public transport will also become more expensive.
Freudenstadt: Quick moves take hosts by surprise
With a slender squad, the TSV Freudenstadt Herren I team (Men's First Team) stepped into the Schiller School Gymnasium in Reutlingen to face TG Gönningen of the Swabian Alb region.
The Alb men stood on the other side of the net with what was undoubtedly a more experienced team.
However, it soon became evident that, due in part to their age, they could not really keep up with the fast pace of the Freudenstadt team.
Gönningen found it extremely difficult to cope with the hard and well-positioned offensive moves.
They repeatedly missed the passes and attacks coming cleanly over the net from Simon Schenk and Eduard Schulz and their blocking game was not up to scratch.
Clear victories in the first two sets clearly demonstrated the superiority of the Freudenstadt team in all areas.
Faced with this overwhelming and match-determining performance, the third set was won following a somewhat tame and spiritless performance, for a final score of 3:0 (25:13, 25:14, 25:22).
On 2 November, when they play TV Baiersbronn, who managed a clear victory in Nagold, they will step onto the court to face a much stronger opponent.
TSV Freudenstadt I: Dominik Bäuerle, Yannik Büchle, Sebastian Dölker, Felix Pälchen, Stefan Räller, Simon Schenk and Eduard Schulz.
In the B Class, two teams from Baiersbronn and Freudenstadt faced off in the Murgtalhalle in Baiersbronn.
They produced a hard-fought two-hour match.
Nerves on both sides, particularly when receiving the ball, resulted in errors and lost points; there was even a lack of passing at times and at some critical moments overeagerness saw potential points wasted.
However, in this evenly matched game, the great physical effort of Marcus Blasutto's TSV team proved decisive in spite of tremendous commitment by both teams.
Maintenance day at the small 'Engländerhütte'
For what was then the fifth maintenance day in the follow-up to the Natura 2000 project in Upper Hotzenwald, a group of dedicated participants met at the small Engländerhütte (Englishman's Cottage) in Ibach
Following suggestions from the population, the of the valley in the area of the cottage was to be cleared, said Mayor Helmut Kaiser.
According to Kaiser, many hikers refer to this area as the showpiece of the Schluchtensteig, where the landscape provides the ideal framework for fantastic views.
He thanked those present for their willingness to cooperate and emphasised that the maintenance day is a suitable instrument through which to strengthen the connection between people and nature,
He is offering every citizen the opportunity to focus on nature itself.
At the same time as the tourist aspect, environmental aspects should also be taken into consideration.
This environmental aspect was explained by Friederike Tribukait of the Department of Nature Conservation of the Freiburg Regional Council, following the greeting by Regional Councillor Tilman Bollacher, who had taken on the role of patron and wished the campaign every success.
According to Tribukait, the tourist objective of the vision coincided with the goal of preserving the now extremely overgrown old Allmend grazing pasture, with its specific protected habitats, through its opening and connection to the still existing grazing land.
Certain species, such as rare butterflies or grasshoppers, cannot get past barriers in the form of forest areas.
They require these clear pathways in order to preserve their species.
Tribukait said that she did not want to fail to use this opportunity to say a word in defence of the planned biosphere area.
The current measures do not integrate seamlessly into these plans.
A biosphere area offers the chance for sustainable economic and ecological development on the basis of the internationally recognised Unesco status, and thus offers an extension to what has been achieved thus far with the Life Project and the previous care days.
After the various statements, forest ranger Christoph Wehle and Life Project manager Cornelia Bischoff divided the helpers into groups.
The larger trees had been cut down in advance, although forest tractors were on-call if required.
One group of helpers were to take care of the clearance of juniper bushes and the maintenance of a dry stone wall.
The objective was to create a clear view at the viewpoint.
Löffingen: Köpfler still the only candidate
Information online: Although Löffingen, the small town of Baar, with its 7,514 residents, can be described as having an intact infrastructure, forward-looking school, youth and senior citizens policies and its own municipal energy companies, thus far no-one has registered as a second mayoral candidate.
So far, the only candidate to succeed Mayor Norbert Brugger, who is no longer running on account of his age, is 46-year-old banker and business economist Dieter Köpfler from Löffingen.
The deadline for applications is Monday 11 November, at 6:00 p.m.
Falkenberg club makes for two wonderful evenings.
The new season in the Falkenberg "Blue Velvet" club has begun.
This Friday evening, the "Pump this party" event will be taking place, while one day later, on Saturday evening, festivities will continue with an over-25s party.
Fat beats and cool sounds are of course promised by the organisers on both nights.
Worker falls from ladder: seriously injured
On Thursday, a 51-year-old worker in Eggelsberg fell from a ladder while replacing a broken external sensor and was seriously injured.
The man from Lamprechtshausen wanted to replace a broken heating sensor on the external facade of a guest house.
As he was climbing the ladder, which was resting on the roof guttering, it slipped away and the man fell onto the concrete below.
He suffered serious injuries and was taken by the "Christophorus 6" rescue helicopter to the Salzburg Regional Hospital.
Rapist in South Africa: two life sentences
Nine months after the brutal rape and mutilation of a 17-year-old girl in South Africa, the perpetrator was condemned to two life sentences on Friday.
This was reported by broadcaster SABC.
The victim later died as a result of the serious injuries.
Johannes Kana had already been found guilty of the crime at the start of the week.
The crime had caused nationwide horror.
The then 21-year-old had raped Anene Booysen in February in an industrial estate in Bredasdorp, near Capetown.
For 14 hours, doctors battled to save the life of the victim, ultimately in vain.
The sight of the young girl was so horrific that the carers and nursing staff required psychological support.
During the trial, Kana admitted to having been in a bar with Booysen on the night of the attack.
He also admitted to beating and raping her, however he denied being responsible for the death of the girl.
The police had initially assumed that there were multiple attackers, however, they released two suspects from custody as the evidence against them was insufficient.
During the proceedings the public prosecution also emphasised that they were convinced that Kana was alone at the time of the attack.
Rapes are almost part of everyday life in South Africa: There are around 64,000 reports of sexual assault every year.
This is almost ten times as many as in Germany, although with a population of 82 million people, Germany has a much higher number of residents than South Africa (50 million).
Police and women's associations in South Africa, however, estimate the number of unreported cases of sexual assault to be 10-25 times as high.
Jumbo visits the home of Black Forest ham
Jumbo on the search for the "world's best ham": For the TV programme "Galileo", the Pro7 star visited Bonndorf.
The presenter established one thing right from the outset: The most important thing when it comes to ham are the legs of pork - turbo fattening does not provide a good basis for this.
Can ham bought in a supermarket be as good as a quality product?
Uli, boss of the large ham factory in Schwarzwald, explained to Jumbo how the Bonndorf company, "Adler", operates.
"Germany's most-loved ham," said Jumbo, presenting the Black Forest ham.
He could only enter the factory when wearing hair protection and a white coat.
Jumbo also had to first disinfect his hands before he could reach for the microphone.
Jumbo seen getting something to keep him going at a fast food restaurant in Waldshut
"Here they work with huge quantities," commented the television producers, astonished by the mass production of Black Forest ham.
16,000 joints of meat per week speak for themselves.
Weight, fat content and colour: Uli explained what was required for the best quality.
The majority of the pigs are slaughtered at six months old.
Television with standards?
Even specific details such as the pH value of the meat play a role.
The darker the meat, the higher the pH value.
"I would be curious what would happen if you were to measure Roberto Blanco," said Jumbo cynically.
Here the standard of private television production is presented in its purest form.
Nonetheless, it is worth watching.
The viewer sees that joints are still carved by hand.
After all: Black Forest ham traditionally arrives on the shelf boneless.
The secret of the ham is the mix of herbs combined with salt.
The appearance of the smoking tower and furnace remind Jumbo of a submarine.
The trick: Here fir branches in the smoker provide the special flavour of Black Forest ham.
After 20 days in the smoke, the ham is finally almost black.
"And now the slice will disappear inside Jumbo," he said, announcing his sampling of the product.
"That is really delicious," said the TV star in conclusion.
All those involved will be happy with that evaluation.
Beautiful animals and delicious tarts entice
The most beautiful rabbits of various breeds and colourings will be presented at the District Exhibition this weekend in the community centre.
The evaluations were already made on Thursday.
Once again, the W514 local association are organising this large exhibition.
Here breeders from the clubs in the District of Soest will be exhibiting their best animals, while young private individuals from Wickeder are also showing their rabbits.
On Thursday, six adjudicators assessed the numerous rabbits and were able to assign awards to the exceptional animals.
The visitors to the show will be kept well informed, with the evaluations of all animals posted on their cages.
Mayor Hermann Arndt will be officially opening the exhibition at 14:30.
The rabbit show will, however, be open to all visitors from 10:00 a.m. on Saturday and from 10:00 a.m. until 3:30 p.m. on Sunday, which will be followed by the prize ceremony.
Guests are also invited to take part in a tombola with impressive prizes and to sample some delicious food from the cafeteria.
Salem: Johanna Rahner at the Ecumenical Discussion Forum
At the next Ecumenical Discussion Forum on Monday 21 October, in the Neues Museum des Schlosses (New Castle Museum), the focus will be on the topic of "To hell with Hell - Theological reflections on how we now approach the notion of end times".
The speaker will be Johanna Rahner.
The Ecumenical Discussion Forum is an initiative of the Catholic and Protestant churches in Salem, the Salem Castle and the Lake Constance District Cultural Office.
At the forum, Johanna Rahner wants to address the question of how people today view the "end times" after death.
While people in past centuries were overly conscious of it, focusing on the pictures of heaven and hell "that up until now have defined our ideas", contemporary prophetic teaching on the hope of consummation is characterised more by a certain bashfulness, or even speechlessness.
"The greater hope has been well and truly cast out of Christians by religious critics," said the speaker.
They have "provided us with so many question marks, that we seem to have lost our exclamation marks".
Johanna Rahner continued: "However, the crucial challenge to this remains fear of death".
Associated with this is the matter of that longing, "that dreams that everything will be good at the end".
Johanna Rahner, born in 1962 in Baden-Baden, studied Catholic theology and biology from 1982 to 1989 at the Albert Ludwig's University in Freiburg.
In 1997 she graduated as a doctor of theology, also in Freiburg.
A post-doctoral lecturing qualification in fundamental theology and ecumenical theology followed in 2003 at the Westfalian Wilhelm's University.
Since 2010, Johanna Rahner has occupied a Chair for Systematic Theology in the Institute for Catholic Theology at the University of Kassel.
Geislingen: More than 100 young Catholics from Kleiner Heuberg stand together in the confirmation of their profession of faith
In two services, 101 15 and 16-year-olds from the Am Kleinen Heuberg pastoral care unit were confirmed.
In the morning, the service was accompanied by the Laudato-Si Group, while the afternoon service featured 'The Spirit' youth choir.
Upon receiving the confirmation sacrament, the young people accepted their baptism and asked for the power of the Holy Spirit.
Over recent months those being confirmed, under the direction of Deacon Reiner Dehner and the assistance of several church members, have been preparing for the special day.
In various projects, they learned of the different tasks involved in Christian church life and attended the Youth Day in Untermachtal together.
Illmensee: Second mountain bike race enthuses participants
In fantastic weather, 214 cyclists came to Illmensee to take on the circuit, over the hills and around the lake.
This was announced by Ulrich Knobel of the organising Illmensee Sports Club.
Among the participants there were also numerous amateur cyclists who wanted the chance to practice their hobby in a competitive environment, in particular over the short distance of 15 kilometres with a 300 metre climb.
Two top-class junior cyclists were also in the starting line-up for the competition: Felix Bader from Bad Waldsee and Pascal Treubel from Aach-Linz came with the recommendation of having achieved good positions at the German Championships.
The pair managed to break away from the field in keeping with expectations.
As was the case the previous year, Felix Bader managed to hold on to a small lead right to the end and defended his title as the overall winner of the short distance race
Once again, Pascal Treubel took second place.
In the ladies' race it was Theresa Duelli of Team Albtraum who managed to take top place on the podium.
In second and third places were Anne Adel from Illmensee and Leonie Treiber from Owingen.
The increasing number of riders that live or work in the area is a fantastic development.
And it was not only about top performance - the entire range of athletic ability was represented.
Participants' ages were also wide-ranging, with the youngest starters at ten years old up to the oldest at over 70.
This year, there were even more absolute top athletes at the starting line for the main race.
Four cyclists managed to break away from the top regional racers.
These included Philipp Pangerl, a semi-professional mountain biker from the Black Tusk Racing Team.
Together with a team mate, Pangerl has already twice been crowned World Champion in the 12-hour race.
This year he became European Champion in this special discipline.
Also competing was Roland Ballerstedt, who has already claimed two German duathlon championships.
After 45 kilometres and a climb of 900 metres, the leading riders were neck and neck on the final straight in front of the Drei-Seen-Hall.
Pangerl sped over the finish line in first place.
Only one second later, the experienced Ballerstedt managed to take second place in the overall standings.
Hermann and Warthmann then reached the finish line simultaneously to take joint third in the overall standings.
In the ladies' race, Christiane Cohsmann achieved the fastest time in the main race.
Areane Blersch from Binzwangen took second place, ahead of Natascha Werner from Stuttgart.
Athletes and assistants seemed very satisfied with the smooth and well-organised running of the event.
Mastering the struggle to perfection.
The role of Santiago, the old man in Hemingway's novel "The Old Man and the Sea", is perfectly suited to Horst Janson.
Janson is an old hand himself when it comes to his profession, the art of acting.
The old man, Santiago, is the best there is when it comes to fishing.
As such, the pair complement one another superbly.
You almost think that you can see the folds in the old man's neck, of which young fisherman Manolo speaks.
When Santiago sits arched over on the chair, tired of life, this is a genuine emotion for Janson.
Furthermore, the role of the old fisherman is a character role, through and through, which Janson masters excellently.
Hemingway told the story of a fighter, a courageous man who doesn't give up and who ultimately wins the battle against the fish as a result of his knowledge and his strong will.
For long periods, Janson is the only performer on the stage.
He manages to focus the audience's attention on himself, with the result that his monologues never become boring, not even for just a moment.
His efforts to finally pull the fish to the surface of the water are so genuine that members of the audience forget that the sea in question consists merely of water bottles, illuminated in blue.
Director Jens Hasselmann has the old man in the boat perform in front of Fischerdorf.
During the course of the performance he has the respective active scene illuminated. Santiago's cabin and the bar of singer Marie-Luise Gunst, who sings of the Cuban lifestyle, with your songs and beautiful voice.
The four musicians accompany with Cuban rhythms and guests at the bar at the same time.
Tourism: Descent to the Romans
Beneath Cologne, a sewage channel from Roman times, measuring around 120 metres in length, has been preserved.
Anyone visiting Cologne cannot miss the cathedral.
The two towers, measuring around 157 metres, extend into the heavens, making it Europe's second tallest church building.
However, only a few visitors who marvel at the two ornate church towers realise that there is much to discover beneath the cathedral.
Rainer Schulze is an expert when it comes to the Cologne underworld.
The meeting point for his tours is the Cologne Tourism Service Centre, right at the cathedral.
The tour begins in a somewhat unspectacular fashion: "We begin in the underground car park," says Schulze.
In the 1970s, the city fathers wanted a car-friendly city, and therefore the only sections of the old city wall that remain are those that were not too tall.
The majority of the users of the parking garage therefore now hurry past the Roman relics and simply drop off their car.
However, anyone who takes a closer look on parking level D2 will discover an archaeological site, cordoned off by metal railings.
Ruins measuring five metres tall, made from stones around the size of the palm of your hand, are waiting to be discovered.
"These are remnants of the Roman city wall, which was built in the second half of the first century A.D," explains Schulze.
Before returning to daylight, Schulze has participants take a glance into a dark, 15-metre shaft on the upper parking level.
This is the well of the old cathedral, which is barely noticed at all these days.
The next stop on the tour is the praetorium, where participants once again descend to the depths.
Here we find the residence of what was once the most powerful man to the north of the Alps, the Praetor of the CCAA.
One visitor wants to know what CCAA means.
"The abbreviation stands for "Colonia Claudia Ara Agrippinensium", which is basically amounts to "City under Roman Law and City of the Agrippinians, founded under Emperor Claudius at the Site of the Altars for the Imperial Cult".
And the Praetorium refers to the former Governor's Palace and the centre of power of the Roman Empire on the Rhine.
From the exhibition vestibule, a tunnel leads to the preserved Roman sewer, measuring around 120 metres in length.
"If you want you can take a peaceful stroll along a section of the so-called Cloaca Maxima," says Schulze, encouraging the guests.
Schulze has one more surprise.
Once he has collected the key from the information desk, he leads the group to a 16-metre, accessible shaft.
"We are now in the Mikwe, a ritual Jewish bath," he explains.
The Jewish congregation built their bath deep into the ground in order to reach the groundwater essential for ritual washing.
To this day the differing water levels caused by the varying levels of the Rhine can be read at the lower end of the Mikwe, the origins of which trace back to the eighth century.
The Mikwe is to form part of an archaeological area at the Town Hall Square, on which construction work is set to begin shortly.
However, it will be a few years before it is complete.
Leg almost hacked off: Rocker retrial
A bloody attack within the 'Rocker' scene is to be re-investigated after more than four years.
Proceedings for attempted murder, grievous bodily harm and material damage, brought against two 30-year-olds have begun before the Frankfurt District Court.
They are being accompanied by strict security precautions.
The accused initially remained silent.
They are said to have been active within the Rocker scene and to have at the time belonged to the Bandidos.
The Public Prosecutor accused them of having stabbed and beaten three men in a car in Finowfurt, together with unknown accomplices.
All the victims were seriously injured, with one man almost losing a leg.
The victims were said to have belonged to the competing gang, the Hell's Angels.
One is said to have been a high-ranking member from Berlin.
It seems that the attack was preceded by a car chase involving several cars.
According to accusations, this was part of a turf war and represented a demonstration of power.
The two accused were acquitted in an initial trial at the beginning of 2012.
At the time, a speaker for the court said that it could not be proven that the men had actually been involved in the bloody feud.
The assailants had worn masks and had not been recognised.
The Federal Supreme Court repealed the verdict following an appeal by the Public Prosecutor's Office and referred the case back to the District Court for a re-trial.
One of the accused is currently serving time in an open prison on account of another offence.
Proceedings initially mainly involved the reconstruction of the series of events on the night of the crime.
The police inspector responsible at the time was invited as a witness.
The central point of focus was on mobile phone conversations between the accused and third parties, which the police had intercepted.
What makes things difficult is that Rockers almost always observe what they consider to be complete silence appearing before the court - they say absolutely nothing.
This also applies in the case of the victims.
In the first trial, only one of the victims spoke out.
When asked, Public Prosecutor Stefan Golfier of the Frankfurt (Oder) Public Prosecutor's Office said that new evidence had come to light since the previous trial.
A further eleven days of proceedings have been scheduled for the trial.
The throwaway society does not think
The night was long, the music loud and the atmosphere good, but at some point everyone has to go home.
Except: In the stomachs of those in the passenger and back seats, hunger strikes.
Of course, this may be down to the odd cocktail or glass of bubbly!
So what could be more natural than to casually pull into the next drive-through to pick yourself up a little treat?
I admit, I am right with you with it comes to picking up some fast food late at night, or early in the morning as the case may be.
A few chips, a coke, a burger - and then straight home and into bed!
However, on the way home the clear differences between me and other hungry clubbers become evident.
What is wrong with people who continually throw their fast food bags out of the car window?!
At the weekend in particular, discarded paper bags can be found at the side of the road and in car parks.
"Why is this?" I ask myself.
Are the people too stupid to take their bags home or throw them into the nearest rubbish bin?
After all, waste paper does more than spoil the landscape.
Bags have also been seen covering transport facilities such as crash barriers, thus causing accidents.
However, the so-called "throwaway society" does not think about such things. They probably do not even know what the term even means.
If you are often out and about in the evening, more often than not with several people in the car, you will know what a back seat can look like after having partied through the night: clothes, bottles and other rubbish begin to pile up.
A few bags won't make much of a difference there - in contrast to on the street where no-one wants to trample through other peoples' leftover food.
I can see the day coming when towns and municipalities will get fed up clearing up - and the fast food chains will have to operate a deposit scheme for their bags.
The government in Jerusalem fails to confirm an attack on the Syrian airforce base
On Thursday, an American government official, who wished to remain anonymous, made a statement to American news broadcaster CNN, stating that Israeli fighter planes had attacked an airforce base in the Syrian town of Latakia the day before.
The target was "missiles and related equipment", which the Israeli government feared were intended for the Lebanese Hezbollah, according to CNN.
The Syrian and Lebanese media, as well as Arabic broadcaster Al-Arabiya, had previously reported that the base in the port town of Latakia was fired upon during the night from Wednesday to Thursday, and the Israelis were identified as the responsible party.
Israeli television broadcaster Channel 2 showed satellite images of the base in Latakia, in which Russian S-125 Newa-type defence missiles and a battery of SA-3 missiles could be seen, which according to Channel 2 have a range of 35 kilometres and can transport warheads weighing up to 70 kilograms.
Unsure, the government in Jerusalem has not officially confirmed the attack.
However, press agency Reuters has also quoted an anonymous Israeli government official as saying that he believed that Israel had carried out the attack, but was not sure.
In any case, a spokesperson for the Israeli Ministry of Defence said: "We are not commenting on these reports".
Journalist Ron Ben-Yishai, writing for daily newspaper Yedioth Ahronoth, emphasised that the Syrian regime had already previously attempted, in some cases successfully, to deliver ground to air missiles to Hezbollah.
The Israeli government had previously repeatedly warned that any attempt by Syria to supply Hezbollah with chemical or other dangerous weapons would be crossing a "red line", which would result in a military response.
A stubborn ankle injury threatens to prevent the deployment of Nicolai Müller in the FSV Mainz's Bundesliga away match at FC Augsburg.
Mainz are concerned regarding the availability of Nicolai Müller.
Tomorrow he will attempt to train with the team.
Up until now he has only managed individual training.
"We will shortly make a decision regarding whether he will play," said manager Thomas Tuchel.
The 40 year-old hopes to have his best striker (with six goals) in the team.
Mainz are already without the injured key players Niki Zimling, Julian Baumgartlinger and Niko Bungert.
