Jennifer Aniston: I'm always pigeonholed
Jennifer Aniston need not always be perfect or successful.
That is what the Hollywood star has made abundantly clear in an interview.
"I'm always pigeonholed, or labelled by someone who has little, if anything, to do with me and reality."
"Personally, I have no desire to be perfect and successful all the time."
"To be honest, I don't really give a damn about things like that."
Jennifer Aniston (47) can only laugh that she has been dubbed "Miss Perfect" in the current issue of "Cosmopolitan."
The actress prefers to spend her time at home in front of the television with her hair in a relaxed bun, eating Mexican food, the magazine reports.
The question of whether she wants children makes her livid: "We women do not need to be married or have children to feel fulfilled," the Hollywood star says.
In her new film, "Mother's Day - love isn't child's play," Aniston stars as a single mother with two sons.
The film is released in Germany on 25 August.
Golfer Langer is awarded the Sport Pyramid
His experience on horseback is negligible.
At the end of a golfing tournament in South Africa, Bernhard Langer and a colleague went for a ride along the beach for a bit of fun.
It was a first for the 58-year-old.
CHIO: "Golden Sport Pyramid" for Bernhard Langer
After a few minutes, the horse decided it wanted to go home, and raced back to its feeding trough at full tilt.
After a kilometre at this speed I was scared.
"It wasn't a good experience," said Langer.
And with that, his riding career came to an end again.
On Saturday, Germany's best golfer of all time - with 101 tournament wins under his belt - was once again near horses.
He and his family toured the ALRV grounds, but he did not jump onto a horse for a photo.
It was Langer's first time in Aachen, and at CHIO.
He had been thoroughly convinced.
The German Sport Aid foundation awarded the man from Anhausen with the Golden Sport Pyramid at a small gala event.
The friendly sportsman is not lacking for awards.
The Federal Cross of Merit, the Silver Laurel Leaf, Champions Tour Player of the Year...
Even the British Queen has bestowed an honour upon him.
Langer is the 18th person to be awarded the Sport Pyramid.
On Saturday, he met the first person to receive it, Hans Günter Winkler, in Aachen.
"This award means a lot to me," said Langer, "because it's not just given for sporting success, but also for social commitment."
Langer has been encouraging up-and-coming talent for years.
And in this vein, he passed the prize money of 25,000 euros on straight away.
The two-time US master's champion was inaugurated into the "Hall of Fame for German Sport" on Saturday, along with 15 other outstanding sportspeople.
Those given the award include track athletes Hartwig Gauder and Harald Schmitt, gymnast Eberhard Gienger, fencers Cornelia Hanisch, Alexander Putsch and Arnd Schmitt, rower Peter-Michael Kolbe, bob-sleigh rider Meinhard Nehmer, judo player Frank Wieneke, show-jumper Alwin Schockemöhle, and, posthumously, handball player Erhard Wunderlich.
Many of these sport legends came to Aachen on Saturday.
After the official part, the illustrious gathering wandered to the show-jumping stadium, where the Lavazza Prize was underway.
Bernhard Langer kept his distance from the large animals.
Comparing Clinton's and Trump's economic policies: It's all about the money
Both Clinton and Trump want to invest in infrastructure and prevent the TTP trade agreement.
But the two candidates for the US presidency disagree on taxes and energy policies, as well as on one fundamental issue.
There is a fundamental philosophical reason for the differences between Donald Trump's and Hillary Clinton's economic policies.
This is the role of the state.
If in doubt, Trump wants the state's role to be minor, and warns of how the state can damage the economy with taxes and regulations.
Clinton wants to lead the economy to its death and regulate it to its death, he says.
He would do things totally differently, Trump says.
He would repeal regulations, and lead a wide-reaching tax reform with low rates for private individuals and companies.
Conversely, Clinton says that the state has particular tasks to fulfil, giving disadvantaged people opportunities - and it needs money to do so.
This would increase taxes for the rich, she says.
Interestingly, they have similar views on infrastructure.
There has to be investment in infrastructure, Trump and Clinton say almost verbatim.
The Democratic candidate has even announced the largest investment in jobs since the Second World War.
State programs investing in infrastructure are classic Democrat policies, and are rejected by the tea party wing of the Republican party, which is critical of the state.
Consequently, Trump could lead to discussions within the party.
There are clearer differences to be seen in terms of energy and climate policies.
Trump wants to build coal-fired power stations and bring coal production in the USA back up.
Drilling for oil should be permitted in protected areas, and he wants to withdraw from the Paris Climate Change Treaty.
On the other hand, Clinton wants to use her investment program to extend renewable energies, saying: "One country will become the superpower of renewable energies, and create millions of jobs."
"It will either be China, Germany or America - and I want it to be us."
But it's not just infrastructure that sees the two candidates taking a rather similar stance - they agree in terms of international trade agreements as well.
Neither want to sign TTP, the trans-Pacific trade agreement.
At the same time, neither want to cut the USA off from international trade - they just want to protect American jobs better.
They should then also be better paid, Clinton demands.
The current minimum wage of 7.25 US dollars is a pittance, she says.
She wants to raise it to 15 dollars an hour.
It is not quite clear what Trump wants to do on this score: Once he said that the minimum wage had to be raised, then he said it should stay the same.
But the big discussion of the months to come will likely revolve around both parties' tax policies.
Trump is on one side, wanting to relieve the burden on the economy and citizens to boost growth.
His critics state that this will just increase the budgetary deficit.
Clinton is on the opposite side: as a minimum, she wants the rich to pay more taxes, and her critics say that more taxes are not the solution either.
Seeking refuge: "Every refugee woman has dealt with sexual violence"
For women fleeing a country on their own, sexual violence is almost part of daily life.
When they arrive in Germany, they are often traumatised.
One house offers refuge.
Four women are sitting in a large kitchen.
Every one of them has a baby with them, the oldest of which is one year old.
One woman holds her little son in her arms.
He looks around the room inquisitively, his eyes wide.
His mother stares at the tabletop.
Until she realises she's being watched.
She smiles briefly and kisses the child.
The scene looks normal.
Until you start talking to Katrin Bahr.
She is the field manager for Condrobs, a provider of social assistance within Bavaria. One of the issues she deals with is refugee women.
The four women in the kitchen are refugees.
They live in the north of Munich, in one of the few decentralised accommodation centres in Bavaria for refugee women and their children who have made the journey alone.
Condrobs opened the centre in January, in collaboration with Pro Familia and the Munich Women's Help organisation.
It recently had its official opening.
60 people live there - around 40 women and 20 children.
There are no men - not even male visitors.
The exception is a bodyguard on the door.
"I'm not exaggerating when I say that every woman who arrives here has dealt with sexual violence on her way to find refuge," said Bahr.
"Men flee because of war, because they are politically persecuted, because they are threatened with torture or death, or because their families pin their hopes on them and send them to Europe," she explains.
When women flee, other reasons are in the foreground: "Many women sneak away secretly, because they see no other way out."
In their home countries, they experienced sexual violence, forced marriage, honour killings, slavery or forced prostitution.
That propels them forward.
And it continues even while they're on the run.
"It is not a rare occurrence that traffickers request a sexual act in exchange for a bottle of water, for example," says Bahr.
And the woman are alone, unprotected by their families.
If you think that this stops as soon as they arrive in Germany, you'd be wrong, says Bahr.
Even in Germany, lone women are often seen as inferior in refugee accommodation, and, in the worst cases, they are abused.
As a result, around 90 percent of the women living in accommodation in the north of Munich are traumatised, she estimates.
"Some of the children were certainly not conceived with the woman's consent."
Many women are so used to it that they do not say anything, she says.
"Or they can't bring themselves to talk about what they experienced because they are too ashamed."
Because they often don't know how to get help, there needs to be more accommodation just for them, says Bahr.
In Bavaria, the seven district governments are responsible for providing accommodation for refugees.
When asked if they knew of projects like the one in Munich operating within the areas they covered, some answered with "no."
In Upper Palatinate and Upper Franconia regions, for example, there is no similar accommodation offered by the government.
Even in Swabia, women who come as lone refugees are not given separate accommodation, says Karl-Heinz Meyer, press spokesperson for the region.
In Upper Bavaria, Lower Franconia and Middle Franconia, floors, or individual houses, are set aside in some shared accommodation for lone women and their children.
The exception is Lower Bavaria: there, there are two central accommodation centres exclusively for women.
Even the European Parliament's Committee on "Women's Rights and Gender Equality" stresses that women must be provided with accommodation separate from that of the men.
In a study published on behalf of the Committee, it was stated that "it is very important that men and women are given separate accommodation."
"If there is a lack of private space, or if men and women are provided with accommodation together, this can result in (perpetual) violence against women."
Washing facilities, above all, should be separate, and easily accessible for women, according to the study.
The extent to which women need this protection can be seen in the sheer number of people interested in the house in Munich.
"Since word has got around that we exist, we have developed a long waiting list," says Bahr.
It would be easy to open a second house.
Seriously injured - man stabs his ex-girlfriend
A man has attacked his ex-girlfriend with a knife in Hamburg's Harburg district, and seriously injured her.
As the police reported yesterday, the 50-year-old had got the key to the apartment so he could collect his personal belongings.
Instead, the drunk attacker sliced up his ex-girlfriend's clothes.
When she came home, he stabbed her twice.
The 44-year-old suffered injuries to her hand and body.
The police managed to arrest the perpetrator.
While the 50-year-old man was destroying his ex-girlfriend's clothing, he called his mother.
She then called his sister.
The 45-year-old and her partner wanted to calm down her brother.
However, she couldn't get him to leave the apartment.
Consequently, she set off from home with her partner.
They met the man's ex-partner in the street.
As the two women entered the apartment, the 50-year-old pushed his sister to one side, and attacked his ex-girlfriend.
Who is going to build Braunschweig's low-cost housing?
The SPD and the Greens think that investors should step up to the plate much more in the future.
How to react to the bad news that Braunschweig will lose almost 1300 low-cost homes over the next few years?
At the next council meeting, the SPD is going to put forward an "action plan for homes."
But it won't be smooth sailing.
Firstly, there is the question of who is actually going to build the low-cost homes?
So far, no settlement has been reached on this point.
SPD group chairman, Christoph Bratmann, says: "We agree with the Greens: if you want to build on municipal land, you will have to designate 20 percent of all homes as social housing in the future."
The low-cost homes could also be older homes that are renovated.
However, the main issue for the council, according to Bratmann: "How do we handle investors who want to build on private ground?"
We want investors building on those spaces to keep at least 10 percent, but if possible, 20 percent, of homes as social housing."
A new municipal programme to promote the construction of homes, which will cost millions, and which still needs to be financed, will trigger concerns.
The problem, according to Bratmann: "At the moment, there is no agreement between groups."
The CDU wants to put as few rules on investors as possible.
The Left wants more stringent requirements to be imposed on investors.
Despite that, according to Bratman, the situation in terms of the housing market is also hotting up.
If the action plan is implemented, the building authorities will be faced with additional tasks.
More staff will be needed.
It is not clear if we will get the specialist staff.
But the program is not quite complete: because the approximately 1260 new homes are to be built anyway.
But how do you balance out the loss of an additional 1300 low-cost homes (approximately), the grants for which will run out over the next few years?
This will come to 500 homes even by 2020.
To prevent this, according to Nicole Palm, spokeswoman for planning policy, bonds that are about to mature should be purchased by the municipality.
In addition, thought must be given to putting homes back into a price maintenance scenario.
This is possible in the west of the city.
The problem could be solved in one fell swoop.
This is because deadlines expire at the end of the year in the west of the city.
Around 1800 homes could then be moved into the managed price scheme for affordable housing.
The only problem is that their owners, housing companies, are against it.
This would dramatically increase the amount of affordable housing in the west of the city, taking a step back from the target of "blending."
No longer are socially disadvantaged people to be concentrated in a small number of districts.
The Greens think there's still room for manoeuvre in the discussions.
Group chairman Holger Herlitschke thinks that "the CDU will have to get into bed with us to reach a decent majority."
However, they have focused on providing more building sites for detached homes.
But that does not mean that it will be impossible to reach a compromise.
Supercup: Barca is worried about facing Sevilla
Seville - On Sunday, FC Barcelona will fight to take their first step towards their first title of the new football season.
The Catalan team will face off against FC Sevilla in an away game in Spain's Supercup; the second leg will take place three days later in Camp Nou.
The two-time champions will have to face up to the defeated Cup finalists and reigning Europa League champions without Neymar, who is playing in the Olympic football tournament for Brazil.
In addition, goalkeeper Marc-Andre ter Stegen is also missing.
During training the German pulled a ligament in his knee. At least it's clear who'll be wearing the number one jersey for Barca: Claudio Bravo.
The Chilean international and Ter Steigen have been competing for number one status for two years now.
Coach Luis Enrique has so far refused to make a clear decision either way, allowing Bravo to wear the jersey in league games, but giving it to Ter Stegen in most of their other matches.
Ahead of the first compulsory game of the new season there were doubts as to the Spanish champions' fitness: they lost 0-4 to Liverpool in a friendly game on Saturday.
Even with 3-2 in a friendly against Sampdoria on Wednesday, Lionel Messi and co. were not really all that convincing.
On the other hand, Sevilla have to swallow their 2-3 extra-time defeat against Real Madrid in the Supercup, and are aiming for a second victory in the "Supercopa de Espana."
With eleven victories, Barcelona are the current record-holders for this competition.
Ma Long is in a league of his own, taking Gold in the table tennis
Rio de Janeiro - Ma Long, from China, is the new table tennis Olympic champion.
On Thursday, the 27-year-old beat his fellow countryman and "defending champion" Zhang Jike in Rio de Janeiro 4-0 in a one-sided final (12,5,4,4).
This gave the world number one the "golden grand slam," winning the World Championship, the World Cup, the final tournament of the World Tour, and the Olympics.
The bronze medal went to Jun Mizutani from Japan.
The two Chinese men made it to the final, as expected, and fought each other for the title.
It was clear that, for the third time in a row, a Chinese athlete would take the singles title at the Olympics.
The last non-Chinese athlete on the top step of the Olympic podium was former SVS Lower Austria legionary Ryu Seung-min from South Korea.
Ma and Zhang were alone at the table: they had no coaches with them between sets and during time-outs.
They had returned to the stands, leaving their charges alone to fight a fair battle against each other.
"Up until now, I have played for my country."
"In the final, I'm playing for myself," Zhang summarised.
After the game, the gold and silver medallists posed with the Chinese flag.
The match itself was unexpectedly one-sided.
Ma only had to fight off his 28-year-old opponent in the first set.
Afterwards, he set the pace on the table, and only let Zhang score a total of 13 points.
Ma's dominance meant that the match was not as exciting as expected.
But nevertheless, there were some breathtaking volleys to be seen.
Mizutani won the bronze medal match against 40-year-old Wladimir Samsonow 4-1.
The Belarussian had injured his rib in his quarter-final against German European Champion Dimitrij Ovtcharov, and was given medical treatment, and ultimately had to content himself with fourth place.
Jan-Ove Waldner from Sweden (38/2004) and Jörgen Persson (42/2008) also reached fourth place at the Olympics at a similarly old age for table tennis.
Donald Trump admits there are "huge problems" with his election campaign
The US Republicans' lead is plagued by significant fears that they might lose their majority, even in states that are traditionally conservative.
Presidential candidate Donald Trump has now admitted to the weaknesses of his election campaign in Utah, formerly a Republican stronghold.
It was a strange moment - the multi-millionaire normally puts on a pompous, self-assured performance, but this time he expressed something analogous to doubt, as correspondents report.
After he had beaten 16 rivals from within the Republican camp, doubt is now growing as to whether he will be successful in the race for the White House.
"We have huge problems in Utah," Trump said to an audience of evangelical Christians whom he asked for assistance in key states such as Ohio, Florida or Virginia.
He blamed false reports on his candidacy, once again giving the media a dressing-down, as he is known to do.
Republican strongholds are wavering
Utah is normally a safe seat for the Republicans.
A poll carried out by SurveyUSA in June puts Trump and his competitor on an equal footing with Democrat Hillary Clinton.
Other bodies do put Trump ahead, but not by the margin usual for Republican candidates in the state.
Arizona and Georgia are also at risk.
In an interview with broadcaster CNBC, Trump was asked how he would stop Clinton's rise, replying: "In the same way I have done before."
And he added: "Either it'll work out, or I'll go on a long, long holiday."
He said he was just "telling the truth."
If he doesn't make it because of political correctness, that's ok, Trump added.
Then, he said, I'd return to a very nice way of life.
According to press reports, the party have threatened Trump with removing financial support for his election campaign if he is unable to do any better in the polls.
Instead, the Republican congressional candidates would be offered more support.
Olympics: Brazen cheating in doping tests
The IOC intends to set up a disciplinary committee to handle the case.
Following the second doping scandal at the Rio Olympics, trouble is looming for Kenya's track and field athletes.
After an attempt to deceive a doping check in the Olympic village, Kenya has sent one coach home.
The International Olympic Committee announced that it would set up a disciplinary committee immediately to investigate the case.
A Kenyan official announced that former sprinter and current coach John Anzrah had given a urine sample in the Olympic village in the name of 800-metre runner Ferguson Rotich.
Kenya's team managers were allegedly informed of this by the doping officials.
The global IAAF federation has requested information about the matter from the IOC so it can carry out its own investigations, stated an IAAF spokesperson.
"The IAAF will perform an evaluation, depending on the findings of the investigation and the steps taken by the IOC as a result," said an IAAF statement.
"He (Anzrah) went to the doping check and alleged that he was Ferguson Rotich, handed in the sample, and signed for it," explained Stephan Arap Soi, Kenya's Chef de Mission.
He had the athlete's accreditation as given in the list of training checks for the World Anti-Doping Agency.
Ferguson Rotich came fourth in the 800-metre race at the 2015 World Championships in Beijing.
Four days previously, the Head of the Kenyan track & field delegation, Michael Rotich, had been sent away from the Rio games.
He was alleged to have told sportspeople from his country about upcoming doping tests in exchange for money.
According to media reports, he was arrested on his return at Nairobi Airport.
After numerous instances of doping, the IOC has been keeping a particularly close eye on Kenya for a while.
When the IOC announced that it would hold more than 2000 targeted doping checks in advance of the Rio games, it also announced, unusually, that athletes from Kenya and Russia would be examined particularly closely.
Ahead of the summer games in Brazil, the World Anti-Doping Agency had put a lot of pressure on the African country to introduce an anti-doping law and a functioning system of checks.
The law was passed a few weeks before the start of the Olympics.
Following this, WADA removed Kenya from the list of countries whose anti-doping measures comply with WADA rules.
Running is a national sport in Kenya.
The country's track and field athletes won the most medals at the 2015 world championships in Beijing.
In a series of televised reports by ARD, the claim was made time and again that doping drugs are easily accessible in Kenya and that there is a mentality of cheating at sport.
IOC member Richard Pound has recently called for an investigation in Kenya to mirror that which took place into Russian athletics.
This investigation proved that doping was undertaken extensively and systematically across the sport.
As a result, Russia's track and field athletes were banned from the summer games.
Salzburg's "West Side Story" with Cecilia Bartoli
In the Shakespeare anniversary year, the Salzburger Festspiele is putting on "West Side Story" with Tony and Maria as tragic couple just like Romeo and Juliet.
Featuring a surprise: Cecilia Bartoli.
A musical has gripped Salzburg: Leornard Bernstein's masterpiece, "West Side Story."
Artistic Director Cecilia Bartoli wanted to bring the musical into the temple of classical music, and has made a childhood dream come true by taking on the role of Maria.
In the orchestra pit, the Simón Bolívar Orchestra will be conducted by Venezuelan director Gustavo Dudamel: "This music is full of rhythm," he enthuses.
We always say that it has a lot of Latin American influences.
There are many Latin American elements in its tempo and melodies.
It is a wonderful mixture, the perfect formula for our orchestra.
I would say that we really have Bernstein's music in our blood!
In this production, Bartoli plays an older Maria.
She remembers her love affair with Tony with wistfulness, while the younger Maria plays and dances.
The role of Maria has always fascinated me.
Firstly because it's musically unusual!
And then there's Maria's personality.
As she says in her song: "I feel pretty, oh so pretty, I feel pretty and witty and bright."
So she's clever, and naive of course, and full of passion.
"She's very like me, like my Italian personality as a girl from Rome," laughs Bartoli.
Dudamel is full of praise for the opera singer: "Cecilia is a wonderful artist."
We are so honoured to work with her.
She is an incredibly generous person.
And Bartoli returns the compliment: "Dudamel is such an exceptional artist and so passionate!"
For him, conducting is a need.
You see it in all his movements, his glances - it is his life!
It is such a great chance to be able to share this musical experience with him.
We both have a rather southern temperament, fire, passion, and we both approach life with joy, which is the most important of all!
For the American director Philip Wm. McKinley, "West Side Story" is bang up-to-date: "This work is all about prejudice and fanaticism."
Today we're dealing with the refugees, back then Puerto Ricans had gone to New York, and the residents of New York didn't want them there.
It's the same issues, and they were as significant then as they are today.
Fifty-nine years on, the work is still relevant.
Turkey: Kurdish community faces mass exodus
"If you don't change your tune and praise Erdogan, your suitcase is basically packed," says the President of the Gülen-supporting Dialogue and World foundation, Ercan Karakoyun.
The Kurdish community in Germany is expecting tens of thousands of people to arrive at short notice in search of protection, fleeing from Turkey to Germany.
In the medium term, this could even grow to "a few hundred thousand," believes Ali Toprak, President of the association.
The crackdown instigated by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan after the attempted coup has led the Germany Kurdish Association to expect a mass exodus to Germany.
"In the short term I'm expecting ten thousand, in the medium term a few hundred thousand people coming from Turkey looking for protection in Germany, if the Erdogan regime continues to antagonise minorities and democratic opposition," said the President of the Association, Ali Toprak, to "Die Welt" newspaper on Friday.
A few months ago the government initiated punitive action against Kurdish strongholds - and as a result, 500,000 Kurds are already on the run within Turkey.
After the unsuccessful coup, secular and oppositional ethnic Turks have been added to the list.
Many will want to seek a new start in Europe if they continue to suffer oppression in Turkey.
"It is unacceptable that a country that takes in refugees is also producing them," said Toprak.
The head of the Association complained about the deliberate relocating of Syrian Arabs in Kurdish and Alevi towns.
He thinks that Erdogan did this to encourage the remaining Kurds to leave.
"They are the last big minority in Turkey: the Christian Armenians and the Greeks have already been exterminated or driven out over the past hundred years," said Toprak, who is also a member of the CDU.
The head of the Association requested that the Federal Government acted "as harshly as Austria against Erdogan and his supporters."
A "witch-hunt" is also underway in Germany against those critical of Erdogan.
Over the past few months, I have no longer felt safe in Germany for the first time.
The German branch of the Gülen movement also fears that many Turks will flee abroad.
More Turks will seek asylum in Germany, especially Kurds and members of the opposition.
Being singled out as a Gülen-supporter is career-destroying for teachers and other academics.
"If you don't change your tune and praise Erdogan, your suitcase is basically packed," said the President of the Gülen-supporting Dialogue and World Foundation, Ercan Karakoyun, to "Die Welt" newspaper.
As the newspaper reports, using figures from the Federal Ministry of the Interior, even before the coup Turks were the largest group granted asylum in Germany on the grounds of political persecution.
On the reference date of June 30, this amounted to 11,386 people, almost 29 percent of all people entitled to asylum (39,625).
These figures do not include people who have fled war, poverty or a lack of prospects.
Under the constitution, only individuals suffering political persecution, i.e., on the part of the state, are entitled to asylum.
Mecklenburg-Vorpommern: "Go where it hurts"
Strange Mecklenburg-Vorpommern: Locals hear nothing about the summer elections - and holidaymakers from North Rhine-Westphalia are not allowed to vote for the state parliament.
In Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, they understood this.
In 2021 the state parliament elections will not take place at the end of the summer holidays, the Schwerin parliament decided at the start of the year.
The way things had been going was simply ridiculous: summer holidays, heat and state parliament elections - they clash with one another.
The locals who need to be won over by the candidates are on holiday.
Most holidaymakers in the state, in Usedom, Rügen or Hiddensee, are not locals - and are not allowed to vote for the state parliament.
There are also practical problems to consider: during the holidays, volunteers who put up signs, blow up balloons, distribute flyers and count the votes at the end, are hard to find.
Until 4 September 2016, election day and the last day of the holidays, people in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern must put up with one more election without the people being consulted.
The heated phase, if that can be said at all, has already begun.
And there's something at stake: Prime Minister Erwin Sellering, leader of an SPD/CDU coalition, is fearing for his seat.
The SPD, the strongest party since 1998, is now clearly behind the CDU, according to polls.
It will be exciting to see how Neuling AfD carves things up, and whether a coalition can be formed with what's left at the end.
Sellering, 66 years old and head of the parliament since 2008, pursued a rather inconspicuous election campaign, as can be seen from his posters.
He is travelling around the region, distributing roses and chatting a bit with people, just as his legendarily taciturn predecessor Harald Ringstorff did.
Apart from that, Seelering has got cold feet, blaming Chancellor Merkel for the rise of the AfD.
Her refugee policies, her "we can manage it" have accelerated the rise of the far-right, he believes - which will probably cost him his job.
The CDU and its top-level candidate, Minister of the Interior Lorenz Caffier, has already experienced what happens when you fight an election in the right place at the wrong time.
The CDU have invited Chancellor Angela Merkel to two mass rallies; Merkel's parliamentary constituency is in the north-east.
But the target group wasn't right: there were more people from North Rhine-Westphalia, Berlin and Saxony there than people from Mecklenburg-Vorpommern.
"The majority probably came from other federal states," Vincent Kokert, general secretary of the CDU in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, complained to the NDR recently.
But it won't do any harm to anyone from other parts of Germany to listen to Angela Merkal for once.
Apart from that, the north-east CDU is generally dispensing with the normal election events with parasols and balloons in market squares and outside shopping centres.
According to Kokert, that will only play a "minor role."
The Union also noticed that they are losing their footing in the region, and will have to work hard to connect with the people.
They are suffering like the Left, the SPD, the Greens: hardly present across large swathes of the region.
The advice that CDU candidate Kokert gave to his competitors is revealing: "You have got to go where it hurts, or where the people are: village fetes, Golden Wedding anniversaries, you have to make use of every birthday party."
Sellering has already called his SPD to fight a particularly committed election campaign because there is so much at stake.
According to polls, the social democrats have 22 percent, behind their partners the CDU (25), and only fractionally ahead of the AfD (19).
In the 2011 elections, the SPD had a clear victory over the CDU (35.6 percent versus 22 percent).
The Greens, a small party with seven percent in the polls, should make the leap into the regional parliament.
They are making a modern virtue out of the holiday issue, and are waging their election war predominantly online.
"Online election campaign" is what the regional chairperson Claudia Müller has dubbed it.
Apart from that, the Greens are searching out local voters among the holidaymakers.
Silke Gajek, their top candidate, is currently crossing Mecklenburg's lakes on a houseboat - and is having a nice time.
Her view? "Having an election holiday in Mecklenburg-Vorpommern isn't all that bad."
B27 redevelopment: restaurants are suffering from the closure
There are hardly any problems with the speed at which the B27 is being redeveloped.
There is praise from all quarters for the people responsible for the construction works, which start at 5.30 a.m. and end at 8 p.m.
"They have done everything so speedily," Elvira Texlaff at the Jet petrol station explains.
That is a super team.
There are also no delays.
At the start of the week, the construction site could be moved southwards in line with plans, marking the half-way point, and everything is expected to be completed by October.
The obligingness of the people responsible for the construction works in terms of setting up substitute driveways.
Since the construction site was moved southwards on Monday, and the Aspegstraße in Ofterdingen was reopened, and the link to Rottenburg was re-established, the traffic situation within the town has improved.
Residents can now drive on both sides of the B 27 out of Ofterdingen.
There seem to be fewer drivers taking alternative routes through the town.
"There were some serious complaints made," said Florian King, deputy chief officer responsible for traffic management during the redevelopment.
Residents in Bachsatzstraße, Steinlachstraße, Hafnerstraße and Weiherrain had to put up with more traffic noise because people were looking for ways to cut through, trusting their satnav more than the signage.
This led to some lorries hurtling through residential areas.
The commune has increased calls for the measuring vehicle from Mössingen because speed limits were not always adhered to either.
"There were considerable infringements," said King, who had taken a look on-site to see what was going on.
Two to three vehicles were snapped by a speed camera every minute.
The fastest was travelling at 77 kilometres per hour in a 30 zone.
Since the construction site has moved on, things have quietened down.
This is only a small consolation for businesses located along the B 27 that the road has reopened for customers from Rottenburg.
Business people don't like to show their hand.
But nobody we questioned hid the fact that the B 27 redevelopment had led to a drop in profits.
However, some have been affected more than others.
People who have little to do with "end customers," i.e. if they make products for other companies, have hardly been affected by the redevelopment.
Even at the Maier car dealership, Thomas Sulz talked of "a slight loss, at the most," but also admitted that "there had been a lack of passing trade."
Bars and restaurants along the road had been the hardest hit.
J. Albert Göhner, owner of the Steakhouse (previously Krone), expressed himself clearly.
It has threatened our very existence.
It's not just him: all restaurants have been "hit hard."
Customers from Hechingen, Balingen and Rottweil stayed away.
We have to be happy about every euro of profit we make.
He reckons that profits slumped by "far more than 50 percent."
The road redevelopment "set back" his businesses "by two years."
He had to let half of his staff go.
If I had a company with 4000 employees and had to let half of them go, politicians would have reacted differently.
Instead, when Göhner asked the government's president, Jörg Schmidt, if there would be financial compensation, the president replied that the restaurant benefited already from its location on the B 27. And now it just had to deal with the disadvantages thrown up by the redevelopment.
Göhner knows of other districts where people have acted more generously.
Despite all the complains, Göhner is convinced that his restaurant will survive.
After all, the family business moved there back in 1715, he said, referring to its long history.
He can understand that his regular customers visit less as a result of the complicated traffic system.
If you can't drive past, other places are also nice.
Göhner has no doubt that his regulars will return once the redevelopment works have been completed.
Despite the crises with BSE and bird flu, Göhner believes that the effects of the B 27 works on his clientele mark the biggest crisis his restaurant has suffered in its long history.
Six months of construction works, that's brutal.
Law are constantly being passed in the name of anti-terrorism.
After the most recent attacks, Minister of the Interior de Maizière is now putting forward a host of security measures.
But what does residential status have to do with terrorism?
And what does the coalition partner have to say about it all?
Thomas de Maizière is playing the conciliator.
All his proposals are "politically reasonable" for the coalition partner, the Federal Minister of the Interior said when revealing his new security package.
They are not asking too much of anyone.
Other, more wide-reaching issues will first be discussed within the parties.
I will also be involved in that.
As Minister of the Interior, however, he is responsible for results, and for reaching an "achievable agreement" within the coalition, he says.
After the most recent attacks in Würzburg and Ansbach, de Maizière let a little time pass before announcing his conclusions for security within Germany.
However, they are more comprehensive as a result.
One thing was already known, announced, heralded: The fact that a new security agency is going to work on cracking encrypted communications is not new.
Neither is the fact that Germany will have to implement several EU directives on air passenger data and gun laws.
The call for more video surveillance and staff for security agencies also does not come as a surprise.
To some extent, de Maizière is launching a second attempt at proposals that the SPD long wanted nothing to do with: He wants to penalise advertising for terrorist groups, and remove German passports from jihadis with dual citizenship.
"They will be difficult issues for the SPD," admitted the CDU politician.
Despite this, he believes they are achievable, and is not demanding anything that has no chance with the coalition partner.
De Maizière also presented a few new ideas.
Some of them have a lot to offer: He is planning accelerated processes for deportation and more opportunities to arrest individuals prior to their deportation.
Refugees who are specifically brought to the country should allow their smartphones to be checked, and present their social media accounts for security checks.
He wants to reduce tolerance for people who have been refused asylum - such as those who commit crimes, or deliberately throw away their papers to conceal their identity.
Some of it is politically and legally tricky.
Some of it also seems half-baked, and leaves questions to be answered.
And for some points - such as the unequal treatment of tolerated persons - the following question is raised: What does that actually have to do with security and terrorism?
Yes, de Maizière says, it is important to differentiate between the issues posed by refugees, and the issue of terrorism.
But it cannot be denied that the perpetrators of the attacks in Ansbach and Würzburg were refugees.
In addition, many people are worried about security because of the large numbers of refugees.
And things that deeply worry people cannot be ignored - even during election season.
Domestic security has come to the fore to a huge extent.
First the attacks in neighbouring countries: Paris, Copenhagen, Brussels, Nice.
Then the attacks in Würzburg and Ansbach.
There is a large amount of uncertainty.
And yes, elections are looming.
The Union and the SPD are consequently focusing more and more on the issue of security.
Over the past few days things have been quite heated between the two parties.
First a nasty argument about the Federal Police Force's equipment, then about an ideas-gathering event for security and politics-related discussions between some Ministers of the Interior in the Union, at which a burka ban and the renunciation of dual citizenship were demanded by department heads.
De Maizière is also trying to strike a conciliatory note here.
He does not think that dual citizenship will be removed.
We have dealt with the discussions in Germany.
It would not make sense to reopen discussions on this topic.
And he thinks that a burka ban would come up against constitutional issues.
However, it remains to be seen whether his own package is in line with the constitution throughout, and whether it really is "achievable" for his coalition partner.
There are few things inside it that could cause problems.
But the SPD is also currently attempting to use the issue of domestic security to shape itself.
SPD Head Sigmar Gabriel showed that the party was happy to discuss the issue, albeit sensitively at first, saying that "the SPD is prepared to discuss anything that will increase security further."
Volkswagen gets off lightly.
Despite the diesel scandal, global delivery figures are increasing.
But things aren't quite as rosy in all markets.
The recall has led to fuss about one term.
Volkswagen's deliveries were more restrained in the second half of the year.
Thanks to its number of brands and some well-functioning markets, Europe's largest car manufacturer can boast another plus for the previous year, despite the diesel scandal.
However, in July, the VW core brand suffered, particularly in Western Europe, thereby affecting overall sales, as the Dax-listed company announced.
Globally, the VW brand sold 449,100 cars in July - 1.8 percent fewer vehicles than in the same month in the previous year.
In Western Europe alone, the second most important market after China, sales were 14 percent lower than in the same month the year before.
In its home market of Germany, deliveries plummeted by almost a sixth.
Head of brand sales, Jürge Stackmann, blamed July's poor figures on the loss of two sales days in Europe.
In addition, some key markets saw "changed economic climates," which led to fewer purchases.
In addition to the situation regarding the attempted coup in Turkey, the British vote to leave the EU had also had an impact, a spokeswoman said.
In the USA, where the emissions scandal first began, the books are once again in the red.
The Chinese market is a source of great support for VW.
In total, Lower Saxony's own brand, which was most affected, has got off lightly from the diesel scandal: After the first seven months, there is a minus in the books for deliveries amounting to 0.9 percent of 3.37 million vehicles.
Head of sales at the company, Fred Kappler, was once again able to bring out an increase in sales from January to July.
Volkswagen delivered 1.3 percent more vehicles in this time period, coming to a global total of 5.904 million.
Volkswagen had used software to manipulate emissions tests.
In Germany alone, VW has called 2.5 million vehicles back to workshops to be refitted.
In the course of modifying the vehicles VW emphasised that refitting them would have no negative effects.
After the vehicles have been modified, fuel consumption, CO2 emissions or motor performance would not get worse.
After modification, the car manufacturer will provide its customers with a certificate that is "as good as a guarantee" but would not talk of an actual "guarantee," as was mentioned on Friday in corporate circles.
Legal intricacies are the reason for this.
"Focus" reported that Volkswagen would provide its German customers with a guarantee for modified diesel cars nonetheless.
This was confirmed by VW representatives at the Federal Ministry of Transport on the Monday previous.
The Ministry of Transport confirmed that this meeting had taken place.
"VW must fully meet the requirements of my investigative committee and the KBA."
"Deviations will not be accepted," explained Alexander Dobrindt (CDU), the Federal Minister for Transport, according to the Ministry.
VW took on the guarantee that fuel consumption, CO2 emissions or motor performance would not get worse as a result of the modification, and all vehicle values relevant to type approval would remain unchanged.
Volkswagen itself does not use the term "guarantee," as has been mentioned in corporate circles.
Volkswagen believes that the broad term "guarantee" could see customers returning to the workshop with motor damage six months after the modification - and being able to blame this on the new software, even if the damage had nothing at all to do with it.
It is also in the customers' interest to prevent confusion with guarantee clauses for any other faults that have nothing at all to do with the emissions scandal.
This is why VW will not be using the term "guarantee."
The Raffeisen Bank in Gmund am Tegernsee will demand penalty interest from wealthy savers in the future - and it will be the second bank in Germany to do so.
Managing Director of the bank, Josef Paul, said on Thursday that "this only applies to 139 customers with 40 million euros in their current accounts or day-to-day accounts."
The Federal Association of German Banks believes this is an isolated case, and does not see it as a sign: normal savers "need not worry about being hit with penalty interest on the pennies they've put aside."
If banks invest money overnight with the European Central Bank (ECB), they have to pay penalty interest of 0.4 percent.
From September, the Raffeisen Bank in Gmund will be asking private and business customers with more than 100,000 euros in their current account or day-to-day account to pay this fee.
"The first 100,000 euros are free."
"In the future, any subsequent 100,000 euros will cost 400 euros a year," Paul said.
For some time, he has been managing 40 million euros that could be withdrawn any day, and that he is unable to make use of.
"The money has been sitting in my account at the Central Bank, and costing 0.4 percent," the bank CEO said.
"I cannot put 4000 euros aside for every million."
He is passing on the costs under the "polluter pays" principle.
It would be far too dangerous just to leave the cash in the Raffeisen Bank's safe: "I have already been through four raids, I don't want a fifth!" the bank's managing director said.
Most customers have been understanding, and have switched to other forms of investment.
Only a small number moved to other banks.
The Federation of Cooperatives of Bavaria explained that "the extreme monetary policy pursued by the ECG leads to all banks incurring significant costs."
It would be "impossible" for them to bear these costs "on a permanent basis, from a business perspective."
As a result, some German banks have increased the fees they charge for account management, credit cards or transfers.
Thuringia's "Volks- und Raffeisen Bank" in Altenburger Land hit the headlines in 2014 when their Skatbank branch imposed penalty interest on investments of more than three million euros.
Michael Kemmer, managing director of the banking association, said: "We are not expecting that private customers will all have to pay fees for investments - the competition between banks in Germany is much too strong for that."
A banker said that, in Tegernsee, there was "clientele who were rather better off in terms of assets."
"That can be a problem for a small bank," if the bank is looking after their money for free.
The Cooperative Bank of Gmund was founded in 1911, and has branches in Bad Wiessee, Rottach-Egern, Kreuth and Tegernsee.
Famous actors, sportspeople and enterpreneurs live in the region.
Spokesperson Ernst said that the Cooperative Association of Bavaria "was not currently aware of any other banks that ask private customers to reimburse their expenses."
The President of the Bundesverband der deutschen Volksbanken und Raiffeisenbanken (BVR), Uwe Fröhlich, said at the end of June that "the threshold for tipping into the red in terms of private customers is very, very high."
Competition is fierce, and there is the risk that investors will move to competitors.
Customers in Germany will not put up with that, broadly speaking.
Despite Olympic disappointment, Martin keeps his fighting spirit
Despite his disappointing performance in the Olympic time trial, cycling professional Tony Martin will keep his chin up.
"I'm going to keep the World Championship in my sights, stay optimistic, and keep fighting," wrote the 31-year-old on Facebook on Thursday ahead of his journey home from Rio.
He was unable to provide an explanation for his poor finish in 12th place on Sugar Loaf Mountain.
"It's honestly hard for me to comment on my time from yesterday," said Martin.
He said he needed to reflect and analyse the reasons behind the debacle.
Martin had wanted to compete for the title at the time trial World Championship in Qatar in October.
"I'm going to take a real look at everything we've changed recently."
"This also includes my position," wrote the three-time time trial World Champion, who had lost to Olympic gold medallist Fabian Cancellara (Switzerland) by more than three minutes over the course of the 54.5km race on Wednesday.
Olympics: Tennis pro Siegemund misses out on the semi-final
Laura Siegemund's reign of success comes to an end in the Rio quarter-final: Ranked 32 in the world, the player from Metzingen will definitely miss out on the semi-final of the Olympic tennis tournament after losing 1:6, 1:6 against Monic Puig (Puerto Rico/WTA no.
34).
Sigemund, who has been struggling with back problems, was only able to hold her serve once, and seemed powerless in comparison to earlier rounds.
On Thursday, potential medallist Angelique Kerber (Kiel/no. 2) had the chance of making the semi-final.
The winner of the Australian Open faced off against Brit Johanna Konta (no. 10).
The last German tennis player to win was Tommy Haas, who took the silver medal in Sydney in 2000.
The last time there were two German tennis players in the quarter-finals of the summer games was in 1992.
There has never been a German-German Olympic semi-final.
Company gets involved in start-up for live video game streaming
Watching other people play video games is a huge trend - and Microsoft wants to profit from this too.
The technology company has purchased start-up Beam, which has specialised in this hobby.
On Thursday Microsoft did not announce how much many had been spent on the takeover.
Beam launched its programme in January, and already has more than 100,000 users.
They can watch other people play, and also get involved themselves.
For example, they can give players missions to complete and confront enemies, and provide equipment.
Games giant Activision Blizzard is launching a new HD video service for the booming world of e-sports.
Facebook is to help on the path to making them global media events.
The advertising industry has already pricked up its ears.
The start-up's employees, who were previously based in Seattle in the US state of Washington, will now move to Microsoft's headquarters in California's Redmond, Beam's co-founder and CEO Matt Salsamendi reported.
The takeover will not change anything for customers.
According to Microsoft, Beam will be integrated into the video games department that is linked to the Xbox console.
The market for live-streaming video games is currently growing rapidly.
Well-known platforms include Twitch and YouTube Gaming.
In 2014 Twitch was purchased by online retailer Amazon - for almost one billion dollars.
YouTube Gaming is owned by Google's parent company Alphabet.
Here comes the enforcement trailer
Germany's speeders will have to get used to the new generation of speedometers: In various federal states, including Hesse and Brandenburg, new speed cameras are being trialled, which are supposed to be particularly effective at catching those who drive too fast.
The futuristic-looking enforcement trailer made by Vitronic, a company form Wiesbaden, could be used at accident blackspots, for example, where it is too dangerous for the police to go.
For example, roadworks on a motorway, or a bridge that is due to be repaired, and therefore has a temporary speed limit often lack the infrastructure to support a fixed speed camera to ensure that speed limits are being adhered to.
It can also be too dangerous or expensive to keep assembling and unassembling the speed camera at these points.
The enforcement trailer is autonomous: its battery lasts for five days of continuous measurement, and data is transferred in encrypted form via a modem.
Thanks to laser measuring technology, all vehicles across several lanes can be tracked at the same time.
Variable speed limits and driving bans based on time, lane or vehicle type can also be monitored.
When powered up, the manufacturer says that any car with a trailer coupling can move the trailer.
To prevent it from simply being stolen, it sinks down when measuring, making its wheels disappear into the armoured, bullet-proof exterior.
In addition, the speed camera's in-built alarm system is designed to protect it from vandalism.
Since 2015, according to Vitronic, the trailer has been tested in various federal states and is now also used in them.
Foreign authorities are also using the new technology for speed cameras: recently France ordered 100 of them, after ordering 150 the year before.
Setting a clear example for 31 years
The Managing Director of the "Veitensteingruppe" Water Supply Association, Rupert Göller, is retiring.
The Assocation "sets an example for the entirety of Bavaria."
A small Franconian drinking water supply association as a role-model for the large water producers.
That was how the association was described in a segment on Bavarian radio.
A little later, the Water Forum of the government of Lower Franconia praised the Association.
The Veitensteingruppe's work was described as "setting an example for the entirety of Bavaria."
Rupert Göller is behind it all: he worked as an employee of the Association for 31 years, and has been its Managing Director for 28.
He has now gone into retirement at the age of 65.
The Veitensteingruppe Drinking Water Supply Association has its headquarters in Kottendorf in the commune of Breitbrunn, and provides 150,000 cubic metres of water annually, supplying 32 villages and hamlets with around 5,500 inhabitants.
The communes of Kirchlauter, Breitbrunn, Lauter, Ebelsbach and the municipality of Baunach are also members.
Water supply contracts are in place for additional municipalities and communes.
Current chairman, Breitbrunn's mayoress Gertrud Bühl (FW), looks back to when Ruper Göller was brought on as a water officer in 1985, and was promoted to Managing Director of the Association as soon as 1988.
"His tasks were very varied, ranging from constructing water pipes and performing maintenance work through to office and organisational tasks, budget planning, calculating fees and contributions, through to getting involved in emergencies at weekends," the chairman said.
She pointed out some exceptional successes, including commissioning and opening the new spring (1994), purchasing land near the new spring (1998), compensating farmers, renovating the elevated tanks (1999), creating a new computer management system (2004), and renewing some of the water pipes.
Things never stopped, and renovations were always underway: water means life, and drinking water is the most important foodstuff of all.
In her laudatory speech, she praised Göller's loyal, reliable, and upstanding service over 31 years.
He put his heart and soul into the Water Supply Association, and lived for it as if it were his own company.
A few weeks ago he gave a presentation at the Water Forum for the District of Lower Franconia as a true practitioner of the Veitensteingruppe's successful nitrate reduction concept.
He received considerable appreciation and praise for this.
For his part, Rupert Göller praised water officer Alfons Griebel, who had worked alongside him for 28 years.
He is the best water officer, and he was a loyal lad.
Together, we were an unbeatable team.
From his perspective, the high point was the construction of the spring and the restructuring of the Association.
However, the largest challenge and most difficult shift was when the pipe broke on the Kirchlauter elevated tank on 3 January one year.
We had to work through the night at minus 17 degrees to ensure the locality would be supplied with water.
Even the supply from the new spring was sometimes only maintained because the elevated tank at Pettstadt was filled by hosepipe.
The management of the Drinking Water Supply Association was passed to Daniel Stürmer from Lauter, who will be Rupert Göller's successor.
Soprano Anna Netrebko is open about her son Tiago's autism - and addresses other parents affected by the disease: "You must be brave enough to talk about it."
"Medicine has come a long way," the 44-year-old said to Italian newspaper "Corriere della Sera."
When her son was diagnosed with the disease, she thought she would die.
Tiago is now eight years old and has made great strides, being schooled privately in New York, where the best therapists are located.
"To give an example: If I ask him what happened two years ago when I sang at Milan's La Scala, he can't remember anything," Netrebko said.
But he is the happiest person on earth.
Tiago is the offspring of Netrebko's liaison with bass-baritone Erwin Schrott.
She is now married to tenor Yusif Eyvazov.
Crime passionelle in Bargteheide - man shoots his partner
A 35-year-old man shot and fatally wounded his partner on Friday around 10.45 a.m. in an apartment building in Bargeteheide (in the district of Stormarn).
"The man himself called up and admitted to having shot his partner," a police spokeswoman said.
The perpetrator is on the run, she said, and he is officially being sought.
This search is now happening across Germany, because Sven S. might be travelling by car.
The man is around 1.8 m tall, muscular, sun-tanned, and has a bald patch.
The police have now issued a photo of him.
But it is a couple of years old.
The man now has a bald patch.
The man should not be approached.
The police believe he may still be carrying a weapon.
Anyone who sees Sven S. should call 110.
The police are talking of a "crime passionelle."
The victim was apparently born in 1988, the perpetrator in 1981.
The police force in Lübeck dealing with the crime initially did not want to disclose any information on the crime or the relationship between the perpetrator and the victim, but it confirmed that a person had been killed.
"It is a homicide."
"We are not saying any more at this time," a police spokeswoman in Lübeck said.
According to eyewitnesses, a SWAT team was at the scene.
Steel - There's a ray of hope for the German steel industry
The German steel industry has been riddled with crises and uses a lot of energy - but it has been spared additional costs that could have run into the millions.
The sector had been threatened by financial burdens for the promotion of green energy, but these are now off the table.
Federal Minister of the Economy Sigmar Gabriel (SPD) told the "Westdeutsche Allgemeine Zeitung" (WAZ) newspaper on Friday that the exemption from the renewable energies levy would remain in place for electricity self-supply for pre-existing plants within the German steel industry.
"I am truly delighted by the fact that we have finally reached an agreement after two years of intense negotiations."
The European Commission had originally planned to make steel manufacturers, who use the gases from their blast furnaces to generate electricity for their own use, pay a levy.
According to the German association for the sector, the steel industry was threatened with additional costs ranging from 120 to 240 million euros a year.
Gabriel told WAZ that a basic agreement had now been reached with the EU Commission, following discussions with Margrethe Vestager, the Commissioner for Competition.
The EEG levy of 20 percent is now only due when the generators in the steelworks are replaced.
This too will not be levied against the steel industry.
IG Metall welcomed the agreement Germany had reached with the EU Commission on electricity self-generation.
The agreement sees the status quo of the previous ruling largely formalised.
Gabriel's positive efforts are particularly important for the steel industry.
"It is the first step within our "steel is the future" campaign."
"This needs to be followed by other steps."
"Climate targets and employment objectives also need to be taken into account during negotiations to reform emissions allowances," explained IG Metall's CEO, Jörg Hofmann, in Frankfurt.
Since the financial crisis of 2008, Europe's steel sector has suffered from overcapacities and considerable pressure in terms of pricing.
The situation only worsened over the past year when the world' biggest producer, China, dumped steel into the global market en masse as a result of weakening domestic demand.
European manufacturers accuse Chinese steel firms of price dumping.
The situation improved slightly during spring of this year.
On the one hand, import taxes started to have an impact on imported steel, on the other, economic prospects in China brightened up.
It is not clear how long prices will remain perked up for.
The German sector leader, Thyssenkrupp, was cautious on Thursday.
Prices had plateaued recently, he said.
The sector is reacting to the tricky situation by reducing prices further.
Thyssenkrupp also did not want to rule out closing individual plants.
At the end of 2015, around 86,000 people were employed in Germany's steel industry.
Despite rising prices and increasing orders, German steel manufacturers remained cautious in July.
At 3.4 million tons, they produced a good six percent less raw steel than in the corresponding month in the previous year, as the steel association reported on Friday.
After a brief spike in May, the amounts produced shrunk for a second consecutive month.
Since the start of the year, production has been two percent less than the value for the equivalent period in the previous year.
The association is expecting output to increase over the next few months thanks to an improved situation in terms of orders.
Community, mind, health: singing is good for the elderly
Singing has been a constant throughout Ursel Kipp's entire life: as a young girl she sang in her school choir, when she was studying to be a teacher she took music classes, and today, the 78-year-old sings in a choir for the elderly.
"Singing moves me - emotionally and physically," she describes.
After a rehearsal, she feels balanced, happy, and generally more alive, she says.
And additionally, she's doing something good for her health and her mind.
Singing is a great hobby for the elderly for a host of reasons, says Erhard Hackler from the German Association for the Elderly.
Most elderly people sing in a choir and share the enjoyment they get from music with like-minded people, says Hackler.
By regularly spending time with others, the elderly can build and maintain social contacts.
Social and familial structures often weaken as people grow older - so choir is a perfect way to spend time with other people.
Ursel Kipp has also experienced this in her choir: "Arranging and organising things with people, being able to rely on others and learn from them - a choir is a really unique way of being together with other people."
Singing can be demanding in the positive sense, Hackler thinks.
This is because it teaches the elderly to breathe deeply and in a controlled manner.
If you push your lungs to their limits regularly, you will not run out of breath as quickly in day-to-day life.
And if you are interested in keeping the sound of your voice as you age, too, singing is the perfect hobby.
Singing often has a really special effect on older people, says Ursula LEnz from the German Association of Senior Citizens' Associations.
For older generations, singing together is seen as more important, it was part of their daily life both at school and in their leisure time, she explains.
Lenz often sees that singing or listening to songs often triggers memories in older people that are often connected to positive emotions from their youth.
Song texts, and melodies in particular, can even be used to help patients with dementia to remember things from far back in their past.
Singing also demands particular mental exertion, explains Lenz.
Concentrating on one's own voice and a set rhythm, while adapting to the other singers - that is a huge cognitive challenge.
In particular, older people who live alone can practice how to focus on people other than themselves.
Another positive aspect is the recognition gained by singing in a choir, Hackler thinks.
A happy audience is great praise.
Even one's self-esteem is boosted by singing in a choir.
Being able to show yourself that by practising for a long time, you can improve and grow - this experience gives you strength.
So there are enough good reasons to start singing.
If you want to try a new hobby, don't delay - even if you think you've not got much talent, Lenz suggests.
You're not singing by yourself - and in a group of 50 people singing, who'll hear if a note's out here or there?
The elderly have many options when looking for the right fit, says Hackler.
If someone you know already sings in a choir for the elderly, you can just go along with them.
In addition, many towns offer an overview of the choirs in their region.
If you want to sing in a church choir, you can approach the parish or churchwarden directly.
Many choirs for the elderly can also be found online.
If you don't have access to the internet, you can ask your family, friends or neighbours to help you look things up online.
If you're interested in singing, you should absolutely join a choir, Hackler thinks.
Singing is good for the soul and is a kind of release - no matter how old you are.
Female cats react more sensitively than male cats to the mewls of their kittens
Biologists in Hanover have researched the effect kittens' cries have on adult animals.
To their surprise, the miaowing didn't leave the male cats unaffected - but, compared to their female counterparts, they always acted the same way.
Female cats can tell how agitated kittens are by their miaowing.
They react ten percent quicker to kittens who sound to be in great distress, the scientists from the Veterinary University and Medical University of Hanover discovered.
Male cats do respond to kittens' cries - but always to the same extent.
"It is clear that the acoustic differences between the miaows of kittens that are more or less agitaged are either imperceptible or unimportant for male cats," the biologists Wiebke Konerding, from MHH, said.
She is the first author of the study published in the "BMC Evolutionary Biology" specialist journal this Friday.
In a previous experiment the research team had already discovered that the duration and pitch of a kitten's miaow changes depending on how urgently they need help.
Nine adult male cats and eight female cats from the MHH's animal husbandry programme were examined.
Firstly, they were played the sound of a kitten who had been taken from the birthing box and separated from its mother and siblings for three minutes.
Then they were played the sound of a more agitated cat, which had also been lifted up.
Despite the low sample size, the researchers believe the results to be significant.
"All females, even those who did not have their offspring, were able to differentiate between miaows," said Konerding.
They turned towards the speaker quicker if it was playing the sound of a highly agitated kitten.
This ability may be innate, or may develop as the animal reaches sexual maturity.
"One surprise was that the male cats reacted at all," the biologist said.
In the past, scientists have researched women's and men's reactions to babies' cries on multiple occasions.
Even in this field a few studies showed that woman reacted more sensitively to infants, regardless of whether they had their own children or not, the biologist Marina Scheumann reported.
Podolski and "Gala" are shooting for the Supercup
Hakan Sükür is a football legend in Turkey.
An arrest warrant has been issued in Turkey for the former football star Hakan Sükür.
He is accused of being a member of a terrorist organisation.
An important football match is taking place in Turkey for the first time following the attempted coup.
Ahead of the duel between arch-rivals Besiktas Istanbul and Lukas Podolski's Galatasaray Istanbul for the Supercup in Konya, the official line is clear: "business as usual."
Even when announcing the state of emergency after the attempted coup in July, the government emphasised that this would not affect citizens' daily life.
This does not apply to those people suspected of being followers of the imam Fethulla Gülen, who is believed to be responsible for the attempted coup.
And this doesn't stop for football.
The state prosecutor has issued a warrant for the arrest of former star striker Hakan Sükür.
Sükür, who now lives in America, is accused of being a member of a terrorist organisation.
Sükür is accused of being a follower of the imam Fethullah Gülen, whom President Recep Tayyip Erdogan holds responsible for the attempted coup.
While the state of emergency, declared for ninety days, will continue until October, it is having practically no effect on the lives of most Turks.
On Wednesday, Erdogan announced that the night-time "democracy vigils" in public places across the country have come to an end.
The sport - like the entire country - is divided into those who support Erdogan, and those who do not.
Fans of the workers' club Besiktas, in particular, are not traditionally counted among the President's friends.
However, the strict rejection of military coups is what brings most Turks together, in the light of dramatic historical events.
And even the fans can agree on that - whether their hearts beat for Galatasaray or Besiktas.
For cup winners Gala, it will once again depend on Lukas Podolski.
The Cologne native has proved his sporting value over the last season: with 17 goals and nine assists across all competitions, the 31-year-old closed his first season as his club's top scorer.
In the final game against Fenerbahce, he scored the goal that led to a 1-0 victory.
The "Fanatik" newspaper praised him, saying "he was the best player on the pitch."
He finished the season in style, and secured the cup for his team.
Thanks to "Poldi," the disappointing season for the record-holders came to a happy end.
After their knockout in the heats for the Champions League, the "Lions" also left the Europa League early on.
They only reached sixth place in the Süper Lig.
The season was not good.
The cup was the only chance to win something.
"We did it - and that's the most important thing," said Podolski.
Winners Besiktas saw a better year of play.
This is mainly thanks to Mario Gomez, who laid the groundwork for their fourteenth title with 26 matches in the season as the Süper Lig's star goalkeeper.
This is also why fans are hoping that the 31-year-old returns.
Gomez, under contract at AC Florenz and only on loan to Besktas, announced after the attempted coup that he would not return to the country after his European Championship holiday due to the political situation.
"But if Mario wants to come here, all he has to do is say," "Kicker" specialist magazine quoted club chairman Fikret Orman as saying.
However, the star would have to be prepared to give up around a third of his annual salary, estimated at 7.5 million euros, as Orman made clear: "We cannot pay the salary that Florenz do."
Despite doping: These athletes are still in with a chance of winning medals in Rio
Justin Gatlin, aged 34, has already been banned twice for doping (in 2001 and 2006).
Rio de Janeiro - Whistleblower Julia Stepanowa is banned from taking her place on the start line.
Other track athletes who have been found guilty can only laugh - they are in Rio competing for medals.
The issue of doping continues to hit the headlines during the Olympic Games in Rio.
The Russian swimmer Julija Jefimowa, who appealed against her doping conviction shortly before the games to enable herself to compete, was booed and shouted at as she started her 100-metre breaststroke race.
It was a bizarre scene: She waltzed into the pool with a smile plastered on her face, a deliberately provocative entrance.
As it became clear that she would not take the gold medal, the audience cheered enthusiastically.
But there are many other athletes preparing to line up on the start line at the Olympic Games in Rio despite having been involved in doping in the past.
Here is an overview:
Justin Gatlin (100, 200, 4x100m relay/USA): The 34-year-old is one of the most controversial track athletes.
He has already been banned twice for doping (in 2001 and from 2006 to 2010).
Since being banned, the 2004 Olympic champion and former World Champion is running faster than ever before: covering 100m in 9.80 seconds, he is the world number one, and is Usain Bolt's major challenger.
Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce (100, 4x100m relay/Jamaica): The two-time Olympic champion and seven-time World Champion was handed a six-month ban in 2010 after she was proved to have taken Oxycodone.
The 29-year-old defended herself by saying she had suffered with bad toothache after an operation.
Sandra Perkovic (discus/Croatia): in 2011, the 2012 Olympic Chamption, 2013 World Champion and 2010-2016 European Champion tested positive for the banned stimulant methyhexaminine.
Perkovic said that she had not knowingly taken the drug, and was banned for six months.
This year's four longest throws were by the woman tipped for gold.
LaShawn Merrit (200, 400 4x400m relay/USA): Champion at the Beijing Olympics and two-time 400m World Champion, Merrit tested positive in 2010 and was banned for 21 months.
Merritt claimed that a penis enlargement drug was to blame.
This year, the 30-year-old is the fastest man in the world in the 200m and the 400m.
Ivan Tichon (hammer, Belarus): There is hardly another athlete who has been retrospectively stripped of so many medals.
Tichon lost his 2005 World Championship title nine years later after he was proved to have been involved in testosterone doping.
Now 40 years old, he was also stripped of his 2004 Olympic silver medal for doping with steroids, and his 2006 European Champion title for testosterone misuse.
His bronze medal from the 2008 Olympics was also taken away, but it was returned to him following a decision by the International Court of Arbitration for Sport, CAS.
With 80.04m he is at second place in the global rankings.
Liu Hong (20km walking, China): The world record holder and favourite to win gold tested positive as far back as May, but will still be on the start line in Rio.
The 29-year-old world champion revealed traces of a banned dietary supplement, but the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) 's ban was lenient, and ended as early as July 13.
Bomb terror in Thailand - One Austrian woman injured - Several dead
The Austrian Embassy in Thailand is in contact with the woman, Thomas Schnöll, the spokesperson for the Foreign Ministry, said early on Friday morning.
She has some cuts, he says, and was treated in hospital, but has already been able to leave hospital.
She plans to return home at the start of September.
It is currently unclear whether other Austrian citizens have been affected by the other explosions on the holiday island of Phuket or in the southern cities of Surat Thani, Phang Nga, Trang and Chumpon.
According to Schnöll, the Foreign Ministry is in constant contact with local authorities as a result.
Hua Hin, located around 200 kilometres south of the capital city, Bangkok, two bombs went off in the nightlife district on Thursday evening.
According to police reports, a Thai woman was killed and around 20 people injured, including the Austrian woman, three Germans, three people from Holland and three Italians.
There were another two explosions early on Friday morning, with another person killed, according to the authorities.
A bomb explosion was also reported in Phuket early in the morning.
Police reports state that a taxi driver was injured in the explosion, which occurred near Patong beach, popular with holidaymakers.
Another bomb exploded in Surat Thani on the country's south-east coast, which led to the death of a civil servant.
According to the authorities, the explosive device was launched from a flower bed on the edge of the coastal police's territory.
Finally, explosions in Phang Nga and Trang on the south-west coast and in Chumphon on the south-east coast caused several casualties.
There is apparently a connection with the explosions in Hua Hin.
"The bomb attacks bear the same signature," said Army General Danai Kritmethavee to journalists early on Friday morning.
"We are assuming that the attacks were coordinated."
It is too early to speculate on possible motives, he says - however, it is probably the actions of Muslim rebels.
The Thai media also wanted to see a pattern in the attacks that was typical of Islamic separatists in the south of the country.
However, the Thai police issued a statement that the attacks were not connected with the Islamist resistance movement or with global terrorism.
"It is just local sabotage, limited to particular areas and provinces," said a spokesperson in Bangkok.
It is more reasonable to assume that the bombs were set off by opponents of the military junta currently ruling the country.
Over the past few days, the authorities have received notification from the security services about attacks planned in the south of the country - but they do not know when and where exactly the attacks are planned for.
It is still apparently unclear who is behind the attacks.
The police told civil servants across the entire country to increase security around important governmental buildings, along with airports, railway stations, tourist attractions, restaurants and nightlife districts.
Small-scale bombings are a frequent occurrence in Thailand, but they are rarely directed at tourists.
There is a palace in Hua Hin that was used by Thailand's King Bhumibol Adulyadej for years.
After the recent bomb explosions, the Austrian Foreign Ministry has issued a recommendation on its homepage that Austrians follow the instructions from the Thai security agencies at all times.
The provinces of Narathiwat, Yala, Pattani and Songhkla, along with Preah Vihear and its surroundings, have been issued with a high security alert (security level 3).
After skirmishes between security forces and Muslim sectors of the population, people are advised against all but essential travel to these districts.
The rest of the country is on an increased security alert (security level 2).
The attacks on Thursday and Friday came just a few days after a controversial referendum on a constitution drawn up by the military junta.
This will give the military large-scale influence even in the years to come.
The Head of the junta, and Prime Minister, Prayut Chan-o-cha said that the bombs were an attempt to create chaos when the country was heading towards stability, an improved economic climate and tourism.
The military junta took power in 2014 after a period of bloody unrest, and believes that it has led the kingdom back to stability and order.
However, the military has not managed to quell the latent resistance brewing with Muslim rebels in the southern edges of the country.
More than 6,500 people have been killed in the conflict so far.
A little under a year ago, 20 people were killed in an attack on a popular Hindu shrine in Bankok - the majority of whom were foreign tourists.
It was the most bloody attack in the country's recent history.
The Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution has the right-wing "Identitäre Bewegung" movement in its sights.
After several regional authorities had done so, the body charged with protecting the constitution across Germany has also put the group on a watchlist.
"In terms of the "Identitäre Bewegung" movement, we can see clear indicators of efforts against the free, democratic order," said Hans-Georg Maaßen, head of constitutional protection, to the German press agency in Berlin.
Muslim migrants or migrants from the Middle East were vilified in an extremist manner.
That is why we will also be monitoring the movement from henceforth.
The "Identitäre Bewegung" is a group with French roots that has been active in Germany since 2012.
It fights against "multicultural madness," "uncontrolled mass immigration" and "the loss of national identity through foreigners."
Bodies protecting the constitution across nine federal states - Bremen, Bavarian, Hesse, Berlin, Baden-Württemberg, North Rhine-Westphalia, Lower Saxony, Saxony and Thuringia - already have the "Identitäre" under observation.
Maaßen said that his authority had worked closely with regional authorities to come to its decision.
"Groups such as the "Identitäre Bewegung" are trying to approach their target group on their level," said the head of constitutional protection.
In general, extremists attempt to speak to them in young people's own language, often with pop music.
Radical Islamists and right-wing extremists both do this.
It's not calm advertisement for the actual matter at hand.
This propaganda is designed to provoke an emotional response in people.
Young people are particularly vulnerable to this.
This is dangerous.
Recently, there have been reports from several federal states pointing out contact between members of the "Identitäre" movement and AfD politicians.
Maaßen said he had no information on this.
In terms of constitutional protection, potential contact of this kind only becomes relevant from a certain point, he says.
It depends on whether the party in question - in this case, the AfD - changes its focus and becomes extremist as a result of particular people who are extremists.
Therefore, the decisive factor is whether these people exert a controlling influence over the party.
This has not been noted.
With regard to the clear increase in right-wing crimes and attacks on asylum seekers and refugee shelters, Maaßen said that he would not yet speak of a new right-wing terrorism.
But, over the past few years, we have determined that right-wing terrorist structures can exist.
There was the "Old School Society" group or the "Freitaler Group."
It can absolutely be the case that additional right-wing terrorist groups or small gatherings come to exist, and plan attacks on asylum seekers, refugee shelters, or for other far-right motives.
However, there is no Germany-wide or Europe-wide control of far-right terrorism that we can discern.
The groups that have existed to date have arisen on a regional level or via social networks.
Maaßen expressed concern that many attacks were perpetrated by people who had previously not been involved in the far-right scene.
That is frightening.
Many of those suspected of carrying out the attacks on asylum centers were not viewed as criminals, politically motivated perpetrators or members of the far-right scene.
"This means that many people have committed crimes who previously paid the far-right no heed, who might have been politically indifferent or voted for the CDU, SPD or the Left, who were then radicalised by far-right sensationalism."
Rio 2016: Robel Kiros Habte becomes an Internet sensation
Olympic athletes or world records aren't always the only things to hit the headlines at the Olympic Games.
This is shown by Robel Kiros Habte's brave performance at the summer games in Rio de Janeiro.
In the Aquatics Centre, the slightly overweight swimmer from Ethiopia swam so slowly that, sometimes, it was impossible to see him in the televised images.
He just disappeared - no matter how wide a perspective was used.
Habte finally become a viral internet sensation on social networks.
The 24-year-old completed his heat 48 seconds slower than the next-fastest competitor, taking place 59 out of 59.
However, it was his not-quite sporty figure that caught the eye of the international media.
Why was the 24-year-old taking part in the Olympic games?
The Ethiopian was given special permission to take part by the international swimming federation.
This is given out to popularise swimming in underrepresented countries.
Because most athletes from Ethiopia run, Habte wanted to do something different.
Preparation is everything: Robel Kiros Habte prepared himself for the big race.
The first nicknames were soon doing the rounds.
Some media outlets dubbed him "Robel the whale."
With reference to his "flabby stomach," the British tabloid "The Sun" mocked his "Dad Bod."
His time, almost one minute and five seconds for the 100 metre freestyle, played no part in this.
Comparisons were also made with "Eric the Eel."
At the 2000 Olympic Games in Sydney, Eric Moussambani's race also drew media attention.
The performance of the swimmer from Equatorial Guinea was unforgettable: he had to swim his 100 metre freestyle heat all on his own.
Moussambani was then greeted by wild cheering.
He was 22 years old at the time, and had learnt to swim eight months before the Olympics - and had never managed such a long distance before the competition began.
Geretsried - Theft from the owner of a shop on the Neuen Platz.
According to the police, the 67-year-old woman from Geretsried left her shop around 5.30 p.m. on Monday, and forgot to close a ground-floor window.
When she returned the next morning at around 8.15 a.m. around 250 euros was missing from the till.
There was no trace of the perpetrator.
The shop did not have CCTV.
Trump is not taking the threat of election defeat too seriously
The Republican candidate for the presidency, Donald Trump, spoke out at an election event in Florida.
If things don't work out with the presidential election, Donald Trump already has a plan B in place.
He would go on holiday.
Donald Trump wouldn't really mind if he lost the US presidential election in November: "Either it'll work out, or I'll go on a long, long holiday," the Republican candidate said in an telephone interview with US television channel CNBC.
If he doesn't make it because of political correctness, that's ok, Trump said.
For example, he called US President Barack Obama, and the Democratic candidate, Hillary Clinton, the founders of terrorist militia Islamic State (IS).
Within his party, resistance continues to grow.
The postal service gets on board with electric vehicles
Detusche Post's electric truck in action.
Other companies are clearly interested in the vehicle.
The postal service is also planning to sell its StreetScooter electric vehicle.
Soon the company will start retailing the vehicle.
The postal service wants to bring its electric vehicle to the free automotive market from next year.
"We want to start selling it to third parties," a postal service spokesman said on Friday.
For months the company has been examining whether the StreetScooter it developed, which is used to deliver letters and parcels, could be sold to other sectors as well.
Managing Director of the postal service Jürgen Gerdes said that there was always demand from tradesmen.
According to information in "Der Spiegel," a news magazine, the Bonn-based company will soon start mass production of the vehicle.
The company is planning to use its own factories to build up to 10,000 vehicles per year, per level.
Gerdes announced that the company wanted to increase the size of its fleet of electric cars considerably, and that its long-term aim was to switch over completely to these environmentally friendly vehicles.
"We will take a very, very strong step towards 2020," he said at the end of July.
I can imagine that we will switch over the entire fleet.
The StreetScooter has been out and about on Germany's roads since 2014.
GfK managing director steps down after disappointing figures
Consumer research firm GfK is replacing its managing director Matthias Hartmann.
His resignation came swiftly - but it was not a complete surprise.
The tricky situation in which market research firm GfK finds itself made it self-evident that Managing Director Matthias Harmann's seat became more and more unstable the longer the success he promised failed to materialise.
Turbulence at the top of Nuremberg's market research firm GfK: After another round of disappointing figures and the resignation of the managing director, the firm, fifth in its sector globally, is on the brink of a personal new start.
GfK's managing director wants to leave the company at the end of the year.
The managing director of GfK's supervisory board, Arno Mahlert, has already announced that he will be leaving the supervisory committee with effect from 12 September.
The company announced that Gerhard Hausruckinger, who is currently a member of the board of directors, will take over the management of the board on 1 September.
Officially, he will take on the role of "board spokesman" until Hartmann's successor has been found.
The company cited "different viewpoints" on long-term business direction as the reason behind the resignation.
A company spokesman did not give further details on Friday.
It is currently not clear who will head up the market research firm in the future.
In investment circles, on Friday it was said that shareholders were greatly disappointed by the lack of success following the restructuring programme implemented years ago.
Mr Hartman has headed up GfK since 2011.
"The benefits of the restructuring programme will only become visible after 5 years," he said.
As a result of GfK's recent poor figures, every shareholder would be a little unsettled, he said.
"If that were the case at BMW, the quants would be too," he said.
After suffering losses in the previous quarters, the company was unable to stop losing money in the second quarter of 2016.
At 361.2 million euros, turnover was 6.1 lower than it had been in the same quarter of the previous year.
Compared to the first six months of the year, turnover (721.2 million euros) had shrunk by 3.4 percent.
The company's reduced value because of the difficult economic climate had impacted second-quarter profits, in particular.
The goodwill amortisation of 139 million euros required for the consumer experience sector was provided by the company, leading to a final loss of 148.2 million euros.
In the second quarter of 2015, GfK had made a profit of 19.7 million.
Incident - Bus slips into a ditch in Krummhörn: eight people injured
On Thursday, an accident involving a coach carrying 43 elderly people in Krummhörn (district of Aurich) led to eight people being injured.
Two of the passengers suffered serious injuries, the police reported.
The 66-year-old bus driver, employed by a coach company based in Eisenach, said that she had to swerve to avoid an oncoming lorry that was partly on the wrong side of the road.
The bus came off the right-hand side of the road, and skidded into a ditch, a spokeswoman for the police force of Aurich/Wittmund reported.
"As a result of the way the bus was positioned, people were not able to leave the bus on their own," she said.
The fire brigade freed the passengers.
Six rescue vehicles and an ambulance were in attendance at the scene of the accident on the no.2 road.
Uninjured passengers were transported back to Krummhörn's Pewsum district by regular bus.
They waited there until a replacement bus was sent by the coach company.
Investigators are asking the lorry driver and any witnesses to make themselves known to the police.
From 1 October 2016, fees per cubic metre of sewage for the area covered by the sewage plant at Neudorf/Reuth/Welschenkahl will be 3.44 euros instead of 2.10 euros as previously, 3.36 euros (previously 2.26 euros) for Zultenberg/Lindenberg/Lopp, and 3.64 euros (previously 2.18 euros) for Azendorf.
The sewage fee for the sewage works in Azendorf will be raised again if it is necessary to carry out improvement works.
According to an estimated calculation, sewage fees in Azendorf will then come to 4.37 euros per cubic metre.
As mayor Bernd Steinhäuser (CSU) reported, when the district administration of Kulmbach approved the budget, it was determined that these sewage plants were underfunded.
The market town of Kasendorf is legally obliged to run the sewage works so that they break even.
From 1 October 2016, individuals and commercial and industrial enterprises from Welschenkahl, Neudorf, Reuth, Azendorf, Lopp, Lindenberg and Zultenberg will have to dig a little deeper.
The fee increases range from 48 to 67 percent.
As administrative director Herbert Schmidt showed the committee, it was necessary to recalculate the fees for the sewage plants serving the market town.
Between October 2016 and September 2020, overfunding and underfunding from the previous calculation period will be balanced out.
Schmidt justifies the major fee increases by saying that all three sewage plants are relatively small and deal with a very small amount of waste, namely between 6800 and 12000 cubic metres a pear.
As a result of the low distribution, expenses for critical repairs amounting to several thousand euros, for example, seem major.
In addition, the amount of sewage arriving at all three plants is gradually decreasing.
Furthermore, the previous calculation period did not include renovation and repair works to a great extent for all three treatment plants, not least because of their age.
The plant in Azendorf is nearly 30 years old, the plants in Welschenkahl, Neudorf and Reuth, as well as Zultenberg, Lindenberg and Lopp are almost 20 years old.
Schmidt pointed out that the waste treatment plant at Azendorf needed to have its mechanical ventilation system replaced because of damage.
The conveyor system in the pumping station at Welschenkahl is almost 20 years old, and needs to be completely overhauled; the first clarification pond in the pond treatment plant at Lopp has been operational for almost 20 years and now needs to be dredged, its sewage sludge removed, and an additional ventilation system incorporated to ensure that it will be in line with water law regulations in the future.
Schmidt: "These extraordinary expenses were also coupled with perpetual support and maintenance costs that are to be taken into account in the new calculation period."
The same is true for electricity costs: in the previous calculations for 2011/2012, they are far below their current levels.
Steinhäuser pointed out that, even with a low amount of sewage coming to the three plants, the expenses for running and maintaining them "were significantly impacted."
As a result, Schmidt expanded, the market town had been saved from large maintenance costs for the sewage treatment plants over the past 20 years.
From Steinhäuser's perspective, the plants mentioned will remain in a precarious situation in the long run, especially as the area covered by Friesenbachtal wastewater association cannot be expanded to include these plants because they are running at a deficit.
Killed in a bomb attack: He was the hero of Aleppo
He put his own life at risk to help others: Khaled Omar.
He was the hero of Aleppo: Khaled Omar dedicated his life to the Syrian people.
He risked everything to save other people's lives.
Now the 30-year-old has been killed in a barrel bomb attack by the Assad regime.
Omar was a member of the "White Helmets," a civil protection group which, according to Bild newspaper, had saved the lives of 60,000 people.
2,900 volunteers put their own lives at risk to pull people from bombed-out houses and perform first-aid in the war zone.
They are the heroes of the war in Syria.
Omar was the face of the group: A video of the civil protection volunteer showing him during an 11-hour operation to rescue an infant from the ruins of a house went viral in 2014.
It made the Syrian a glowing figurehead amidst the horror of the war.
However, he never saw himself as a hero, saying, according to Bild: "For me, this is the real jihad."
"If I were to die saving lives, I would think that God saw me as a martyr."
Shortly before Omar himself became a victim of an attack, he had spoken in a video about the recent bomb attacks on Syria.
Helicopters had released four barrel bombs over the Alzadia district, one of which was filled with chlorine gas.
One woman and two children were killed, and seven people have been left with breathing difficulties.
"We are now clearing away the toxic remains of the bomb so that children don't play with it," quoted Bild as his last words before he died.
The fatal bomb dropped by the Assad regime was supposed to have been aimed at terrorists.
The Greenland shark: The oldest vertebrate is almost 400 years old
It's a rare sight.
Greenland sharks generally only come to the surface in winter.
After being examined on board the research ship "Sanna," this shark was returned to the sea.
It was born in 1624 and has swum through the North Atlantic at 1km/h right through to the present day.
Greenland sharks only give birth to young at the age of 150.
Greenland sharks swim leisurely along the sea floor of the North Atlantic, covering an average of 1,220 metres in an hour.
The five-metre-long animal can ramp this up to 2.6 km/h if necessary - but this maximum speed is half as fast as a seal.
However, this slow pace of life seems to be the key to a long life.
Julius Nielsen from the University of Copenhagen and his colleagues wrote an article in "Science," the specialist journal, about a Greenland shark that could be 392 years old.
"It's crazy," says Alexander Scheuerlein from the Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research in Rostock about this lifespan - which is a world record for a vertebrate.
It is true that evolutionary biologists had long thought that Greenland sharks had been around for a very long time.
They were simply lacking the proof.
It is hard to observe Greenland sharks, namely because they mainly live in the ocean off the sparsely populated coasts of Canada, Greenland, Norway and Svalbard.
They generally only come to the surface in winter because they prefer water temperatures of around six degrees Celsius.
As a result, researchers know little about how Greenland sharks live.
Their slow speed was measured by researchers off Svalbard, who fitted six animals with a tracker.
However, these sharks still manage to catch prey: In one animal's stomach, researchers found the remains of a seal; another shark had gobbled down the jawbone of a young polar bear.
It may be the case that they hunt down sleeping animals, or patrol on the ocean floor and look out for corpses that have sunk downwards from higher levels of water.
Julius Nielsen and his colleagues have now examined 28 Greenland sharks caught in the depths of the North Atlantic by fishermen between 2010 and 2013 off the coast of Greenland or Svalbard.
The smallest shark was just 81 centimetres long, while the largest measured 502 centimetres.
They use carbon-14 dating on the shark's lens core to determine the shark's age.
This core of the eye's lens comes into being even before the shark is born, and the proteins in it are not renewed subsequently.
The two smallest sharks had remarkably high levels of carbon-14 in their lens cores.
Consequently, they were likely born after the early 1960s, when nuclear weapons experiments released large amounts of this radioactive carbon into the atmosphere.
By contrast, the lens cores of third-smallest animal, at 220 centimetres long, contained less of a surplus of carbon-14 from nuclear weapons experiments - so when it was examined in 2012, it must have already had its 50th birthday.
By contrast, all the larger Greenland sharks had normal levels of carbon-14 in their lens cores, which comes from cosmic radiation in the atmosphere.
In fact, the carbon-14 monitor gave a 493-centimetre-long Greenland shark an age of 335, while the record-holding shark, at 502 centimetres, was apparently 392 years old.
It was already known that female Greenland sharks first had offspring when they were more than four metres long.
Now researchers have been able to map this length onto an age.
As one of the animals, 392 centimetres long, was likely on the threshold of sexual maturity, and had an age of 156, it seems that Greenland sharks take at least 150 years to be able to reproduce.
This is also a world record for vertebrates.
It is not by chance that such Methuselahs predominantly live in icy waters.
The previous record holder, a 211-year-old Greenland whale, in whose neck a 120-year-old harpoon tip was lodged, was caught off Alaska.
As a result of low temperatures, the systems of the animals living there often run on as little energy as possible.
This means they mature later - and age slower.
The animals often become particularly large so they stay warm in cold waters.
This is because their volume increases much quicker than their surface area, through which the animal radiates heat.
This means that the heat lost per gram of a mouse is much bigger than that lost per gram of an elephant.
Another advantage is that they have fewer enemies.
"This means that a smaller animal has a more dangerous life, and has to focus on having as many offspring as quickly as possible," explains Scheuerlein, an evolutionary biologist.
By contrast, a very large animal can invest its resources in having a longer life.
Construction sites coming as a twinpack
The commune's council focused on construction-related topics in its most recent session.
The committee was pleased to hear mayor Robert Putz' announcement that "we can finally begin to market the residential construction sites that have recently been marked out."
After plot, parcelling and accessibility questions had been answered, and applications for measurements had been made, there was nothing standing in the way of the sale of the plots in the residential areas of "Straßlweg" and "Schönau-West" (near Binderstraße - development section 1) to interested parties.
The communal council is convinced that the construction sites in the rural, peaceful residential commune of Schönau will attract young families and older people alike.
As said, people prepared to build on these sites should apply in the town hall from now, and the communal council will probably discuss giving out the plots in its September meeting.
So that it would be able to answer questions on the movement of additional businesses, in connection with the creation of jobs, the communal council decided to amend the space usage plan first re-drawn in spring of this year.
Consequently, the business area already marked out in Unterzeitlarn will be expanded to include a further two plots near state road 2112.
Frankfurt will benefit from Brexit
The city on the river Main will soon have the best chance against the competition of Paris, Dublin and Luxembourg to draw jobs and companies away from London.
"It is highly likely that Frankfurt will benefit the most from the Brexit vote," said Michael Voigtländer, Head of IW's Financial Markets and Real Estate specialist area.
After the Brexit referendum it is unclear whether financial institutions will still be allowed to run European financial business from London.
Registration in the UK is all that has been required to date for the "EU passport."
This is generally used by large US banks.
Several banks have already announced that they will relocate jobs.
The "Frankfurt Main Finance" lobbying group expects to see 10,000 new jobs on the river Main within five years.
According to the IW, the European Central Bank (ECB) 's headquarters, responsibility for monetary policy and supervision over the largest banks in the eurozone, all come together to represent a real plus for Frankfurt, along with further important authorities, such as EIOPA, Europe's insurance regulator, and ESRB, the risk board.
While Paris has the headquarters of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), this is less important for the financial sector than the ECB.
"The proximity to the central bank is important for banks - they can communicate directly with the authorities," says IW's Professor Voigtländer.
While Luxembourg is home to a large funds industry, like Dublin, its infrastructure lets it down.
Thanks to its large airport, Frankfurt is considerably easier to get to.
In addition, the city's easily available business properties are a win.
"In Paris it's not all that easy to find vacant high-quality offices," said Voigtländer.
Rents for top-class business properties are 50% higher on the banks of the Seine than on the banks of the Main.
In addition, Frankfurt can offer better quality of life than its competitors, thanks to its good medical systems and infrastructure, and low crime levels.
In a table compiled by management consultants Mercer, the city was ranked 7th, Luxembourg 19th, Dublin 33rd and Paris 37 th.
And even if quality of life is a matter of preference: "Thanks to its already strong position as a financial hub for the European domestic market, Frankfurt could be able to attract additional banks and investors," IW concluded.
Despite the Brexit vote, London will remain Europe's financial capital, according to the economic researchers.
This is also to do with strength ratios: According to figures from regional bank Helaba, around 144,000 people worked in banking in London in 2015 - compared to 62,500 in Frankfurt.
Municipal council reaches unanimous decision: No new kiosk to be built on the St. Goarer bank of the Rhine
Normally the people of St. Goarer are happy to accept investment from businesses - but retail in the core of the city is clearly capable of developing itself.
The municipal has now unanimously rejected the application to build a new retail kiosk on the bank of the river Rhine close to the Rhine balcony currently under construction.
"We are generally happy to welcome new businesses, but this kiosk does not fit in this exposed position on the bank of the Rhine," explained Michael Hubrath on behalf of the CDU faction.
Witnesses wanted: drinks cash-and-carry in Waldbröl raided
A robbery took place on Thursday evening in the drinks cash-and-carry of Rewe XXL on Walbröl's Gerberstraße.
Three people dressed in dark clothing and with their faces covered brandished a gun and demanded that staff at the cash-and-carry hand over cash. They made a run for it on foot, and then probably got into a silver VW Golf.
The police did not report how much money had been stolen.
Between 1.6 and 1.7 m tall, the perpetrators were relatively short.
The drinks cash-and-carry can be accessed directly from the Rewe supermarket's car park, and is tricky to observe.
After the robbery, the perpetrators must have run towards Gerberstraße along Friedrich-Engelbert-Weg, and then fled, possibly towards the B 256 (Schladern ring road) in the silver car from the Schotterparkplatz opposite the entrance to the multi-storey car park.
Anyone who saw anything around the time of the crime (around 7.45 p.m.) that is connected with the robbery should contact the police immediately.
Nagold: Fun and games at the summer fete
Children and young people from the youth work day group/social group work project from the child protection league of Nagold spent eight gloriously happy days with their social workers during the summer camp in Nussdorf, near Mühlacker.
The lively group spent the first week of the school holidays in the peacefully-located Hartwäldle holiday camp.
There were several day trips on the agenda.
One trip saw the group head to Bretten to visit the petting zoo.
Another saw them visit Maulbronn, where there was a special children's tour around the world-famous cloisters.
The third trip took the group to Pforzheim.
The group learnt lots about how the Celts lived and what they ate in the Celtic Museum in Hochdorf.
On warm dates, the group cooled off at the Tiefensee lake in Maulbronn: perfect for jumping into, swimming around in, and paddling.
Children and carers cooked their own favourite meals, such as mini German spätzle dumplings in a sour sauce, traditional Seebronner Pfännle and Iselshauser Bloff, English breakfast, and Tübingen-style bolognese.
During workshops, children could practise baktik, make beautiful jewellery with pearls and stones, or create a Roman windmill game from wood.
Other highlights of the summer camp included fishing in a nearby pond, spending the evenings around a campfire, and the concluding "Gala Night."
When it came to go home, the sun was shining, and the children and young people headed home happy.
Haigerloch: Pilgrims at the gates of mercy
The ministrants from the chaplaincy of Eyachtal-Haigerloch St. Anna went on a four-day pilgrimage from Villingen to Freiburg.
They covered four stages together.
The committee of upper ministrants for St. Anna had decided to prepare for and go on a pilgrimage lasting several days to bridge the gap to the next pilgrimage to Rome for all ministrants, likely to take place in two years' time.
Various pilgrimage sites were discussed, and a decision was finally made to go to the bishop's city of Freiburg, where, to mark the holy year of mercy, this year the gates of mercy opened for this at Freiburg cathedral are a particular pilgrimage site.
16 children from Bittelbronn, Gruol, Haigerloch and Heiligenzimmern set off.
On the previous evening, Father Storost set the pilgrims off with a small celebration in St. Anna, blessed the pilgrims' cross and the pilgrims.
They took the train from Horb to the starting point of Villingen, where the Cathedral of Our Lady is found. They started their pilgrimage from the cathedral.
The individual day trips were framed by brief moments every morning and evening with various prayers, songs and written texts.
Even when they were out and about, the children took breaks at wayside crosses, chapels or churches to sing a song from the pilgrims' songbook they had put together themselves.
The rectory of each parish they reached was available for them to stay in overnight.
At each stage, Alexandra Burkhardt and Heidi Faller were responsible for creating a delicious, nourishing dinner and breakfast.
The second day saw them head towards Gütenbach, via Furtwangen.
The next day, they set off on the section towards St. Peter, the most demanding section, seeing them climb around 500 metres in altitude in sweltering heat, and then descend again.
They earned the reward of barbecueing together by the swimming pond.
After the morning session on the fourth day of the pilgrimage in the impressive cloisters of St. Peter, they started off on the final stage to Freiburg.
The children gathered together in Freiburg Cathedral late in the afternoon, visibly relieved and happy, and passed through the gates of mercy.
A brief moment was taken to thank God.
The evening mass in the cathedral saw the children who had arrived at the pilgrimage site welcomed by Chaplain Markus Obert.
After the service, the pilgrims were able to visit the sacristry and the high altar.
The next day, there was time to look around the city, located in the region of Breisgau.
In the afternoon they took the train back to Horb.
At the end, all the participants agreed that the trip was characterised by spirituality and a strong sense of camaraderie.
Berlin/Schwerin: Poll ahead of regional elections: SPD and CDU lose out
Ahead of the elections in the federal states of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern (4 September) and Berlin (18 September), considerable losses are looming for the governing parties of the SPD and the CDU.
These are the findings of a representative poll carried out by INSA, a polling institute, on behalf of "Bild" newspaper.
While the red-black ruling coalition in the north might just be able to continue in office, this will not be possible in Berlin, according to the poll.
However, the SPD was the strongest party in both states, with good chances of putting forward the head of the government.
In Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, the SPD plummeted from 35.6 percent to 24 percent in five years.
According to the poll, this puts the party only slightly above the CDU, who had 23 percent.
The Left and the AfD will fight over third place.
The Left had 19 percent (previously 18.4 percent), and, with 19 percent, the AfD could be in the regional parliament for the first time.
Despite small losses (from 8.7 percent to 6 percent), the Greens will return to Schwerin's regional parliament.
The NPD and the FPD, with 3 percent each, will not be represented in the regional parliament.
According to the poll, the SPD would only receive 23 percent in Berlin's elections to the House of Representatives (2011 elections: 28.3 percent).
The CDU would only take 18 percent, after having taken 23.4 percent.
This would put them behind the Greens with 19 percent (2011: 17.6 percent), but ahead of the Left, with 15 percent (previously 11.7 percent).
The AfD would be represented in the House for the first time, with 14 percent.
With 5 percent, the FPD could hope to return, but the Pirates, by contrast, would miss out - unlike in 2011.
Nokia 9000 Communicator: The first smartphone
Email and the Internet in slow motion: The Nokia Communicator was brought to market 20 years ago.
Its successors have now conquered the world - but its manufacturer is in the midst of a disaster.
The device weighed almost half a kilogram, and was more than four times as heavy as an iPhone 5.
It was thicker and larger, and harder to hold.
Indeed, it was quite bulky.
The in-built storage originally held eight megabytes - enough today for around two high-resolution selfies.
Now, an iPhone holds at least 16 gigabytes.
The "Nokia 9000 Communicator" was released for sale exactly 20 years ago, on 15 August 1996 - and it was the first smartphone.
The device is still available online for fans to buy for a couple of euros, even though it comes from the stone age of the Internet.
However, 20 years ago, the Communicator sparked a sensation.
The Finnish mobile phone manufacturer had presented the product a couple of months previously at the Cebit computer trade fair in Hanover, billing it as "the office you can fit in your pocket."
The new mobile phone could really do a lot by standards back then: it could send and receive SMS messages and emails, and could even be contacted by fax.
You could even access websites via a HTML browser, even though it was painfully slow.
There was a calculator, a digital address book and an electronic calendar.
There was a small antenna, and the phone could be folded open like a laptop.
This revealed a small keyboard and a black and white screen.
The price was fairly high: 2700 deutschmarks, around 1400 euros.
In 2015, the average sale price of a smartphone in Germany was 392 euros.
In August 1996, nobody had any idea that the Communicator heralded the start of the smartphone era.
Today, everything has changed.
Smartphones are a success story - even if the same cannot be said for Nokia.
The mobile phone branch of the Finnish company experienced an unprecedented disaster, and was eventually sold to Microsoft and wound up.
Today the market is dominated by providers who came to the game much later than Nokia.
For many people today, being online all day, no matter where you are, is simply a fact of life.
In 2015, there were around two billion smartphone users around the world.
Around 1.4 billion devices were sold, and Samsung and Apple alone make up 555 million of them.
Global sales of the devices amount to around 400 billion euros.
This is in addition to the flourishing businesses of innumerable app providers and telecommunications firms.
An entire industry has now sprung up around smartphones.
The decisive moment when the mass market was broken into was only at the start of 2007, when the Apple CEO at the time, Steve Jobs, announced the introduction of the iPhone at Mac World.
He promised three devices in one: a music player, a telephone and an internet communicator - and everything could be accessed easily via touchscreen.
Apple's triumphant march began, and the iPhone is still the company's most important product today.
Nokia, Motorola and Blackberry, who used to dominate the market, lost out.
They eventually disappeared, and Blackberry had to fight for its existence.
Apple, and Asian providers such as Samsung, now hold sway.
20 years after their invention, smartphones are a fact of life.
Nowadays, every German looks at their phone an average of 88 times a day.
"We all need to learn to put our phones down from time to time," said Janina Kugel, Siemens HR Director.
Being permanently contactable has become a blessing and a curse.
A controversial baseball star steps down
Alex Rodriguez' tears ran quicker than the US baseball star had run from base to base, in better days.
After his emotional announcement of retirement, the 41-year-old pro will wear his New York Yankees jersey for the last time on 12 August, against the Tampa Bay Rays.
"I love this game and this team."
"I'm saying goodbye to both of them," the 14-time All Star Major League Baseball (MLB) player explained.
Rodriguez was voted the most valuable player in the league three times, and in 2009 he won the World Series with the Yankees.
He signed a ten-year contract, which has brought him 27 million US dollars every year since 2007.
Until the end of the contract on 31 December 2017, he will work as a consultant and a youth coach - on full pay.
Rodriguez paid this back in terms of playing performance long ago.
With 696 home runs, 3114 hits and 2021 points for his team ("runs"), for the Seattle Mariners (1994 to 2000), the Texas Rangers (2001 to 2004) and since 2005, the Yankees, he has reached rather a few milestones.
Along with Hall of Fame members Hank Aaron and Willie Mays, there are only two other baseball players who can boast similar key statistics.
However, the 41-year-old cannot be welcomed into the baseball Hall of Fame.
Because no matter how successful Rodriguez - nicknamed "A-Rod" - was on the pitch, his behaviour off the pitch was just as controversial.
As far back as 2009 the superstar told ESPN that he had taken banned steroids between 2001 and 2003.
In August 2013 he was banned for 211 games until the end of 2014 for his involvement in the "biogenesis scandal."
Rodriguez was the main suspect accused of having received performance enhancing drugs via an anti-ageing clinic in Florida over a period of years.
After a legal battle, the ban was reduced to 162 matches.
"The league might even have done me a favour in 2014 - I'd played for 20 years without a break," Rodriguez said, summing things up.
Even his final days didn't go off without a bang.
While many baseball legends take to the great stage over their last few games, Rodriguez had to sit on the sidelines.
"My job isn't about a retirement tour."
"My job is about trying to win every game," stated Yankees coach Joe Girardi.
Nevertheless, Rodriguez, who was married to actress Cameron Diaz and who has been rumoured to have been linked to pop star Madonna and actress Kate Hudson, had the support of the fans of Yankees' arch rivals, Boston Red Sox.
"We want A-Rod," the fans sang as they were defeated 4:9 by Rodriguez' team.
2016 Olympics: Chen Xinyi, Silwia Danekowa and Adrian Zielinski are the first doping cases
Busted: After a sample tested positive for doping, weightlifter Adrian Zielinksi from Poland is not allowed to compete in Rio.
Rio de Janeiro - the 2016 Olympic Games have been overshadowed by the first official cases of doping.
One now-banned athlete had almost won a medal.
The first official doping cases of the Rio Olympic Games were announced ahead of the seventh day of the competition.
Chinese swimmer Chen Xinyi, 3000-meter hurdler Silwia Danekowa from Bulgaria and Polish weightlifter Adrian Zielinski tested positive in Brazil, and have been excluded. Just before the start of the athletics competition, which has not escaped criticism, this news comes at a bad time.
The Sunday before, Chen had revealed the presence of the diuretic hydrochlorothiazide, which is used to mask drugs.
The international sport tribunal CAS confirmed on Friday afternoon local time that she had been banned from the Olympic Games.
On Sunday, the 18-year-old had taken fourth place in the 100m Butterfly final - missing out on a bronze medal by just 0.09 seconds.
Chen was supposed to have taken part in the 50m Freestyle heats on Friday.
Chen applied to the International Olympic Committee (IOC) for a hearing and to have her B sample opened.
The national association is taking the instance "very seriously, and asks that Chen cooperate fully with the investigations," quoted Xinhua from a press release: "We will collaborate with the international sports tribunal CAS and will accept their decision."
For the first time in history, the CAS, not the IOC, is responsible for sanctioning sportspeople who test positive.
Also overnight in Rio, the news about Danekowa's positive test leaked out, and the 33-year-old went on the offensive herself.
"I had three tests, all of which were negative, and my fourth test was positive," which was "an unbelievable shock," she said to Bulgarian TV channel BNT.
She said she was innocent and that "the only explanation could be food supplements," the athlete explained.
According to the report, the banned substance involved was the blood doping chemical EPO.
Danekowa was suspended as a precaution, and according to BNT, a B sample also tested postive.
Bulgaria's Prime Minister Bojko Borissow spoke up immediately to criticise the athlete.
"I do not understand why sportspeople do not draw the right conclusions," he said: "We Bulgarians are under observation, so many have already been banned."
Almost all the weightlifters from the nation, which has been plagued by doping, were not allowed to participate in Rio.
On Friday the case of "Adrian Zielinski" was announced: the winner at the London Olympics in the weight category of up to 85 kg had tested positive for the anabolic steroid Nandrolone three days earlier, just like his brother.
Both deny taking it, but neither was allowed to compete in the weight category of up to 94 kg.
Ahead of the athletes' start, the case of Danekowa is another heavy blow for the reputation of the entire sport.
The World Federation IAAF had banned the entire Russian team, with one exception, for systematic doping, and running nation Kenya also created a mass of bad news in Rio.
In swimming, China's earlier offence had caused heated disputes between the athletes themselves.
Camille Lacourt, from France, spoke out harshly against Chinese Olympic winner Sun Yang.
"Sun Yang's pee is purple."
"When I look at the podium for the 200m Freestyle, I want to throw up," Lacourt said on French radio.
In addition, Sun was at the middle of an argument with Mack Horton, from Australia.
"I have no time and no respect for drug cheats," he said.
Sun tested positive for the stimulant trimetazidine at the Chinese championships in 2014, but only had to sit out for a three-month ban.
Data theft: This is how perfidiously hackers extort ransom money
Programmers of extortion malware are currently targeting companies - with success.
According to a recent survey of 540 companies in North America, the UK and Germany by Malwarebytes, the malware defence specialists, 40 percent of the companies surveyed had fallen victim to one, two, or several attacks involving extortion software in the past twelve months.
In Germany, around 20 percent of the companies had already been targeted by a ransomware attack.
40 percent of the victims willingly paid up the ransom demanded by the perpetrators so that they were able to use their systems and data that had been affected by the attack.
According to Malwarebytes' observations, it is noticeable that perpetrators are tailoring their extortion software to attacks on corporate networks.
If they are successful in that domain, the ransom money they can demand is significantly higher than it would be for private users.
"We are currently seeing harmful software develop terrifyingly quickly," explains Malwarebytes' CEO, Marcin Kleczynski, in an interview with "Die Welt" newspaper.
In 2008, most malware programmes were still focused on sending out adverts.
Then perpetrators discovered extortion software.
Private users were initially the target, but the shift to corporate attacks took place terrifyingly quickly over the past few months.
Ransomware follows a simple pattern: Once activated on a user's computer, it seeks out files that have not been edited for a long time, like Word, Excel or database files, as well as image and video archives.
The ransomware encrypts these files, and deletes the originals for good.
Finally, the software presents the extortioner's demands.
The victim has to transfer money - generally in the form of "Bitcoins," a cryptocurrency - to get the decryption code needed for the files.
But while it's a personal photo database that's at play for private users, it's sensitive customer data or project databases needed for the continuation of projects that are the focus for companies.
As a result, the damage from a ransomware hit is greater.
22 percent of German companies affected reported that they had suffered a fall in turnover due to ransomware, 13 percent had to cease trading entirely, and in one instance, people's lives were put at risk.
In Germany, several hospitals have already fallen victim to attacks, and their patients were placed under serious threat as a result of the loss of medical records.
"We always tell victims not to pay up: that simply exacerbates the problem," explains Kleczynski.
But 80 to 90 percent of companies who pay up get their files back.
Faced with operations coming to a standstill, it is hard for managers to say no to the perpetrators' demands.
Then again, the hackers know that, and do all they can to build up a good reputation.
A recent study saw security researchers from F-Secure examine user interfaces and contact with extortioners. They came to the conclusion that perpetrators really do try to construct a kind of customer service system so that they can get more money.
They explain to their victims via chat how to pay using Bitcoin, set up freely-accessible support websites, or decrypt sample files for free.
And while private individuals are targeted for sums of a few hundred euros, companies sometimes have to bargain hard and pay out five-figure sums to get their files back decrypted.
Faced with the potentially high and relatively risk-free profits from ransomware extortion, hackers are becoming more and more professional, splitting up their work, explains security expert Chester Wisniewski from antivirus provider Sophos: "An individual can write a ransomware program within about a week."
However, it is more likely that three or four people will be involved.
The programmers then sell their malware to the actual extortioners in the form of a set of software building blocks.
Malware kits to date, including the malware itself, advice and additional tools, have been sold for a one-off fixed fee of between 1000 and 10,000 dollars.
"The kits include an adapter tool so that smaller configurations can be constructed, and the appearance and branding can be changed," says Wisniewski.
The extortioners then look out additional hackers to distribute the freshly prepared software between victims.
We live in a service economy.
So you just log into an underground forum, buy the set from a criminal, and task someone else with installing the software on as many PCs as possible.
There's a payment made for every computer infected.
"Normally, criminals then task spammers with distribution," explains Wisniewski.
Now, many companies are aware of the risks of ransomware, and they are protecting their data better.
More than 50 percent of companies' IT specialists in Maywarebytes' survey relied on using file back-ups and scanner software to beat ransomware.
As a result, perpetrators are already trying out new strategies.
"If simply encrypting files isn't enough of a threat to make an extortion request be granted, the perpetrators threaten to publish sensitive files instead, such as customer lists, or price calculations," explains Malwarebytes' CEO, Marcin Kleczynski.
This means that the risk potential is much higher than before, depending on the type of file.
In the future, perpetrators will be able to focus themselves on brand-new targets within the internet of things.
At the Defcon hacker conference, security researchers demonstrated how they could take control of a thermostat connected to the internet.
In the midst of winter, many victims would pay a ransom to have their blocked heating turned back on.
In the future, if hackers switch off an entire production line in a factory instead of someone's heating, ransomware could also be a issue in Industry 4.0.
Something for every situation
HONDA HR-V is practical and perfect for everyday use
Honda wants to cram everything into the small HR-V: a bit of an SUV, a bit of a coupé, bundled up with the versatility of a minivan.
It seems a bit too much, but the HR-V, built on the same new platform as the new Jazz, does indeed prove itself to be exceptionally flexible in daily use.
Although the HR-V, at just 1.60m tall, seems small, passengers in the front and the back have got plenty of room, it's not a squeeze at all.
The materials used in the interior are well crafted, and have a pleasant appearance - just the surface of the dashboard lets the side down.
The HR-V is more versatile than comparable vehicles in terms of its loading space.
There isn't just a boot of 453 l with the seats up, and 1026 l with the seats down; there are the "magic seats" too.
This is rather less magical than it sounds: the seats in the back can be flipped up like cinema seats to reveal additional loading space, measuring 1.24 m from floor to ceiling.
The boot is easy to load, but the load height of 650 mm is a bit higher than it is in the Peugeot 2008, which is a comparable model.
The 1.6 l diesel engine we tested, with 88 kW/120 horsepower accelerates the HR-V powerfully, thanks to the torque of up to 300 Nm across a wide range of speeds.
However, it could certainly do its work a bit more quietly.
Everyday consumption of 4.7 l/100 km was pleasing.
There is an additional motor: a 1.5 l petrol engine with 96 kW/130 horsepower.
All-wheel drive is not available.
Its handling is balanced, a good compromise between speed and comfort.
The steering could be a bit more direct, however.
In the top-flight "Executive" version, which we tested, the fittings leave nothing to be desired.
The safety systems include city emergency braking assistant (functions up to a speed of 32), collision warning system, and the lane departure warning system.
The collision warning system is irritating occasionally: when parking, it sees lots of obstacles as "approaching objects."
The high-beam assistant system is very reliable.
And the intelligent speed regulator reacts to traffic signage, and reduces the vehicle's speed if necessary.
However, full connectivity is only available for the top-of-the-range model: 7 inch touchscreen, satnav, app integration, and more.
There are two USB ports and a HDMI port under the armrest, which makes them rather tricky to access.
It costs around 29,000 euros for a top-of-the-range diesel model, which is fair.
If you don't want to invest quite that much, the petrol model is available from 20,000 euros, and diesel from 23,000 euros.
The motors comply with euro 6 emissions standards.
With the HR-V, Honda is offering a diverse car that is perfect for everyday driving.
Airline is not liable: Fall on passenger boarding bridge
An airline will not be liable for a passenger's fall on a passenger boarding bridge.
This is because liability only applies for risks typical for aviation travel, the Higher Regional Court of Dusseldorf argued (Az.: 18 U 124/14).
The claimant had broken a kneecap in the fall.
However, the accident could have happened anywhere - it was one of the ordinary risks of life, pronounced the court.
The airline did not have to pay the man any compensation.
When do organisers pay if illness strikes?
Travellers who fall ill will only get their money back when they return home if there is no doubt that their illness was caused by something within their hotel.
However, this is only the case if more than ten percent of visitors can be proved to have suffered the same symptoms.
In this case, a family were stricken with diarrhoea and vomiting on the second day of their holiday in Turkey.
They spent almost all their holiday in their room.
The holidaymakers blamed a malfunctioning sewage treatment plant, which they believed to have polluted the seawater.
The family took the opinion that the holiday was unsatisfactory - and took the organiser to court.
The claimants had no luck in court.
It was true that the waste treatment plant was suffering from a fault.
But the organiser only found out about this just before the claimants departed.
Until that date, the organiser had to assume that the seawater was acceptable.
According to the judgement, the organiser had not violated its information obligation.
In addition, no contamination was found in water samples.
When several hotel guests fall ill - possibly by infecting each other - the court views this as a general life risk.
Only 38 of 691 guests fell ill.
De Maizière said that many people were worried about further attacks following the violence perpetrated by refugees in Würzburg and Ansbach in July.
He said that the state must react to the threat of terrorism with prudence and resolve.
One thing is for sure: Our country will not react to the perpetrators' violence with hatred and division.
We will not give the terrorists this victory.
If perpetrators have to leave the country quicker, that will boost security and increase the general public's approval of refugee politics.
De Maizière wants the proposals to be implemented before the federal elections in 2017.
He also announced that security services would receive more staff, to the tune of "a mid-four figure sum over several years."
Advertising for terrorism must be punishable once again.
Video surveillance is to be improved, and gun laws to be amended so that purchasing weapons online, in particular, is made more difficult.
Doctors' confidentiality obligations, recently the subject of much discussion, are to remain, according to De Maizière.
However, he wants to talk to doctors to find solutions to reduce the risk to the general public with regard to mental illness, he said.
The Minister felt that improved social care was important to counteract the radicalisation of refugees.
Teachers must be better trained for dealing with traumatised individuals.
De Maizière is planning to employ undercover agents to hunt down criminals in particular areas of the Internet (the Dark Web).
SPD Head Gabriel said that "the SPD is prepared to discuss anything that will increase security further."
He said it was important that the Minister of the Interior had spoken out clearly against actionism.
"That was a slap in the face for agitators in the CDU/CSU," said Gabriel on Friday to the newspapers of the Funke media group.
De Maizière had previously turned down calls from the coalition for a burka ban and the abolition of dual nationality.
He views an overarching ban of full veils as problematic under the constitution.
You can't ban everything you're opposed to, and I'm opposed to the wearing of the burka.
We can talk about the law with regard to traffic, or for witnesses appearing in court.
Head of the Greens, Simone Peter, accused the Minister of wanting to use new anti-terror packages to create an air of energy and ability to act.
Head of the Left, Bernd Riexinger, said that "smooth talking and tightening up residency laws are not going to make the people in this country any more safe."
Better flow of traffic on the motorway slip road
Traffic jams are a regular occurrence on the bypass - here's a photo from November.
But that is about to change: the right-hand turning lane is to be extended.
This is good news for all drivers stuck in rush-hour traffic on the bypass every evening as they drive onto the motorway slip road (A43).
Next Tuesday and Wednesday (16/17 August), the State Roadworks Office will extendthe right-hand turning lane in the area between Hammer Straße and the exit from Weseler Straße by 700 metres.
This means that drivers will be able to feed in directly from Hammer Straße.
The major advantage is that traffic will split earlier, improving overall circulation on the busy section of main road 51.
The CDU fraction in the Münster (West) district administration came up with the idea to lengthen the exit.
The traffic on the slip road is particularly bad for drivers between 5pm and 7pm.
On weekdays, the traffic jam stretches to the bridge over Albersloher Weg - and sometimes even goes over it.
This is caused by the bottleneck on the B51, just before the exit onto Weseler Straße.
From here, there is only a single lane of traffic over the motorway bridge.
The second lane was removed a good eighteen months ago.
The reason for this was that structural analysis had shown that the bridge was no longer capable of supporting the weight caused by two lanes, particularly the weight of heavy goods vehicles.
The relevant authorities cannot say how long this bottleneck, and the associated rush-hour traffic, will last.
It's going to be a matter of years: officially, the bridge will remain in use until 2034.
The district authorities deliberately chose the less busy period of the school holidays for the extension of the right-hand turning lane, because it will cause delays.
Traffic will be diverted past the construction site in a single lane on Tuesday and Wednesday.
Intercultural journey: Cultural programme for schools
The international class from the forest school has been to see "The Invisible House" at the theatre.
The "Nima's" association and Young Theatre are now planning a musical project.
The "Nima's" association enables young people from a migrant or refugee background to visit cultural institutions in Münster.
The "International Class" at the Kinderhaus forest school saw a performance of the award-winning play "The Invisible House" at the Young Theatre in Münster.
Within the framework of the "Intercultural Journey" set up by Nima's, 19 pupils aged between 11 and 15 saw the play in the small house.
The association's objective is to encourage cultural integration of young people from migrant and refugee backgrounds, and since the start of the year, it has offered schools with welcome classes with the chance to attend cultural institutions in Münster as part of this project.
Most young people in the class arrived in Münster between September 2015 and March 2016 from Afghanistan, Iran, Serbia and Syria, among others, and spoke little German.
Thanks to the choreography, scenic images and video animations they were able to follow the plot regardless, according to the press release from Münster's Young Theatre.
Nima's, founded by Dr. Tannaz Westerberg from Sprakel, and the Young Theatre, will work on a musical theatre project together over the next season.
From October to December, young people aged between 14 and 20 with and without a migrant and refugee background will have the chance to attend professionally-led courses for singing, dancing, acting, and music.
There are also plans for acting and theatrical language training for children and families.
The "Intercultural Journey" project continues.
As a result of the increase in the number of refugees, the association is expecting that many classes will want to take part.
Rain replaces shooting stars: There is hope that the weather will improve
For people hoping to spot shooting stars in south-west Germany on Thursday night, the weather put paid to their plans - but all is not lost.
The President of the Observatory of Welzheim, Hans-Ulrich Keller, said on Friday morning that the clouds and rain overnight meant that conditions were not ideal for observing the celestial show.
We are pinning our hopes on Friday night.
The weather is supposed to be good, so we'll definitely see lots of shooting stars in the sky.
The shooting stars are the Perseids: some of the quickest shooting stars, travelling at 216000 kilometres an hour.
Their name refers to the fact that they seem to come from the constellation of Perseus, which is visible in the north-east.
Silent night: Tips to fight sleep disorders
In the evening your mind won't stop whirring, you lie awake for hours each night, and by the time morning comes, sleep is far from your mind even well before your alarm goes off.
This is anything but relaxing.
If you suffer from these issues, you're in good company: According to the Robert Koch Institute, around a quarter of adults suffer from sleep disorders, and more than ten percent find that they often or always wake up not feeling refreshed.
How do sleep problems or sleep disorders manifest themselves?
There are various forms of sleep disorders, and they can have many causes, emphasises Hans-Günter Weeß, President of the German Association for Sleep Research and Sleep Medicine.
What people generally understand by sleep disorders is insomnia: a problem with falling asleep and sleeping through the night.
Many people feel that their sleep throughout the night is unsatisfactory or inadequate, says Jens Wagenknecht, Member of the Board of the German Association of General Practicioners, who practices in Varel in Lower Saxony.
What is behind sleep disorders?
The causes of sleep disorders are complex.
Biological, psychological or behavioural factors can be to blame, along with medication.
A sleep disorder is often a reflection of another illness.
"Waking up very early is common with depression, in particular," says Weeß.
And it can be the case that several factors have an impact on each other.
If you have a slipped disk, for example, you might find it hard to lie down, wake up every couple of hours, and start to grumble about everyday problems and worries, suggests Weeß as an example.
That causes tension, and it is impossible to sleep.
When should you see your doctor about sleep disorders?
If, over the course of a month, you sleep poorly for at least three nights a week, and find that this impacts you during the day, you should see a doctor, advises Weeß.
They can impact in various different ways: You could be exhausted, tired, poorly rested, suffer from difficulties concentrating and staying alert, be irritable, have mood swings or physical complains such as stomach ache or headaches.
To be able to treat a sleep disorder, it is important to work out what is causing it.
Behaviour changes, cognitive behavioural therapy or medication - with traditional sleeping tablets only being used in exceptional circumstances and for a maximum of two weeks - are all options for treatment.
There are hardly any registered sleep doctors in Germany, emphasises Prof. Ingo Fietze, Head of the Interdisciplinary Centre for Sleep Medicine at the Charité University Medicine Centre in Berlin.
As a result, you should first turn to your GP if you're suffering with a sleep disorder, recommends Weeß.
Your doctor will examine you to see if the problems have a physical cause.
Who should go to a sleep lab, and what happens there?
Doctors recommend an examination in a sleep lab for patients whose snoring disrupts their breathing, for people who feel abnormally sleepy during the day, for sleepwalkers, or if the cause of a sleep disorder cannot be pinpointed, explains Fietze.
You don't have to prepare for the examination at all.
You should spend the day normally.
"Just - please don't take an afternoon nap," says Fietze.
After being cabled up, you head to bed at your normal time.
In addition to the electrodes on the body, you wear a nasal cannula, a belt across your chest and a sensor on your finger.
In addition, a camera mounted on the ceiling records the sleeper.
How can those affected get a grip on the problems they are experiencing?
There are a fair few areas that can be adjusted to encourage a better night's sleep.
Weeß lists them: going to bed and getting up a regular times, not staying in bed too long, not sleeping during the day, not watching television to get to sleep, avoiding alcohol, and not looking at the clock during the night - because then you start working out times straight away, and that's not helpful at all.
What the jungle camp has got to do with missing swimming medals
Former German swimmer Markus Deibler has posted on Facebook about the disappointing performance of the DSV team at the Olympics.
In December 2014 he got his first gold medal at the Short Course Swimming Championships in Doha, while setting his first world record.
Now the former DSV athlete Markus Deibler has come forward on Facebook to defend his ex-teammates from criticism.
"In a country in which an Olympic champion is awarded 20,000 euros and the King of the Jungle gets 150,000 euros, nobody should wonder why medals aren't being won," the 26-year-old wrote on Thursday night on his Facebook page.
The remuneration system in swimming is poor, but doping tests, on the other hand, are very good, he says.
This means that we cannot compete with countries who pay a lot and that don't pay as much attention to doping, or even encourage it.
"I'm not saying that we should stop our tests," he went on to explain.
If he wanted to make a comeback, Deibler would have to register with the National Anti-Doping Agency for Germany (NADA) nine months before he started.
This is exactly how it should be with countries.
"If you don't submit to WADA/FINA checks a particular amount of time before the World Championships/Olympics, then you shouldn't be able to take part," the Hamburg resident stated, who now runs an ice-cream parlour.
Airport: A gang of luggage thieves are arrested
Professional thieves at Dusseldorf airport
Plain clothes officers from Dusseldorf's police force managed to arrest two women and two men, aged between 50 and 61, on Thursday.
The suspects had worked as a group to steal several bags and items of luggage.
Around 9.30 p.m. civil servants in Dusseldorf Airport recognised a gang known to the police from previous thefts.
The two men and two women had committed multiple crimes since mid-July, and had committed the offences as a group, dividing up their work in a particularly professional way.
The specialists from the 34th police inspectorate were able to prove that the thieves, who had travelled to Germany to commit the crimes, had committed four crimes.
They had made more than 15,000 euros as a result.
Old buildings, a couple of little linden trees, and a few cobblestones among them: at first glance, Berlin-Friedrichshain's Rigaer Straße doesn't look as if it's one of the streets that the police consider to be among the most dangerous in the city.
If you walk along the street from east to west, you come across playgrounds, a freshly painted kindergarten and a health-food shop.
Someone has spraypainted "horrid!" on the facade of a house.
Opposite a Lidl, due to be pulled down soon, construction is already underway: by 2017, a building with large windows and 133 new apartments to rend is expected to be constructed.
Articles on this "trendy district," as the property company responsible has dubbed Friedrichshain, have been illustrated with pictures of burning cars over the past few weeks.
The reason for this is house 94: At first, it was occupied by squatters, then the inhabitants had rental contracts, but some rooms on the ground floor are still occupied by squatters and used for events.
Berlin's Senator of the Interior Henkel had called multiple times since the start of the year for the police to take a hard line against the project that has made the area a "no-go zone" for police and singled out 94 as the starting point for autonomous violence.
After the rooms on the ground floor, the Kadterschmiede, were cleared on 22 June by 300 police officers, the police patrolled the area for three weeks, according to official statements, with 30 to 40 officers and three vans, closing parts of the street and preventing visitors from accessing house 94.
During this period, builders renovated the rooms on behalf of the unidentified owner of the house.
On 13 July Berlin's Administrative Court ruled that the clearing was illegal, and, one day later, police and builders left the site, to the cheers of supporters and residents.
On this summer afternoon, the street seemed peaceful: parents were out walking with their children, people were sitting on their houses' steps in the sunshine, other people were chatting in front of the off-licence.
Near the house project there is a primary school and a kindergarten.
Far-left violence is not what worries most residents the most: Kerstin Neugebauer, who has lived in the district since 1999, and Jana*, who has brought three children up here, are mainly irritated by the police presence.
They share the inhabitants of the housing project's fears of rising rents and gentrification.
It doesn't sound like a district that wants more police protection against left-wing vandalism.
The schisms that Berlin's Senator for the Interior and the police believe to have opened up between the squatters in the house and their neighbours do not exist.
Friedrichshain, in the east of Berlin, was traditionally a working-class neighbourhood. Even today, it has a lower average income and a higher risk of poverty than the rest of the city.
Squatters in houses and the residential projects they spawn are nothing new in the district: in 1990 numerous houses in the then-GDR were full of squatters, including almost all of Mainzer Straßer, near Rigauer.
While those on Mainzerstraße were cleared out during a real street battle with a large police deployment, many of the projects in Rigauer were legalised, and are to a certain extent still inhabited by the people who first squatted there 26 years ago.
At the same time, the district has become more and more of a magnet for tourists and Berlin residents who come from all over the world: residents from GDR times and former squatters are now sharing their district with them.
This can be felt in the rents, which have climbed by almost 60 percent since 2009.
Many of the new buildings in Rigauer are seen as symbols of this development: this is clear from their broken windows or freshly painted facades splattered by paint bombs.
No other street has been mentioned so often this year in connection with "autonomous left-wing violence."
One reason for not all neighbours seeing this as a problem could be that they are not directly affected by crime: according to statistics, almost all crimes such as bodily harm are directed against the police.
The majority of crimes are damage to property, which tend to target new buildings and recently renovated properties.
For Kerstin Neugebauer, who has been living in a block of flats next-door to controversial number 94 for 17 years, there can be no talk of uncertainty.
She is calm about acts of violence: the people at number 94 are her neighbours, they certainly had nothing to do with it.
Even the notorious burning cars have not played a role in Rigaer for a long time.
The trained architect does not see her street as a crime flashpoint - quite the opposite: "Here we help each other, live together along the street, and talk to each other more than elsewhere."
Neugebauer chose to move to Rigauer Straße - and she chose to stay there.
This is also why it was so important to her that residents got their street back: back from the police, politicians and the media who suddenly started claiming how important the district was in July.
But in the eyes of residents like Neugebauer, the street is still being taken away: by impersonal new developments in old empty sites, which drive out old residents.
"They are freehold flats, and most people here aren't interested in that - people here generally aren't so well-off," she said.
"I absolutely cannot condone violence and destruction."
But what should you do when nobody listens to you?
Then everyone gets frustrated, including the police and residents.
Kerstin Neugebauer has little sympathy for people who have moved in and are irritated by paint bombs: The housing project and the left-wing scene are part of the district.
If you move here, you should be aware of that - just like someone who moves into an area full of pubs should know they can't really complain about the noise.
All people only described using their forenames have requested that their real names are not used
Urbach: Annika Deutscle is the new Commissioner for Refugees
Annika Deutschle is the contact person for integration and organisation.
She will also work on-site as a social worker.
Annika Deuschle has been the Commissioner for Refugees for Urbach since July.
The social education worker will assist the management team run by Achim Grockenberger.
She views herself as a point-of-contact for all involved: refugees, people from the working group for refugees, administrators, authorities, and anyone else.
Regine Kunde from the working group said that the volunteers are more than grateful that Deuschle is now available to work as a jack-of-all-trades to help anyone experiencing difficulties.
That's what some people said when management posted the advert for the job - meaning it less in a mocking way, and more with reference to the number of tasks that were to be performed.
They were looking for a manager with people skills and communication skills, combined with years of experience in social work - a real jack-of-all-trades.
However, managerial work is not how she spends most of her time, Annika Deuschle says.
It is primarily about organisation, working on-site with people, even in the background, and networking, she says.
The 31-year-old has been in post for around six weeks.
She has taken the 50% job for a fixed term of three years.
It was high time," Regine Kunde said, that Annika Deuschle offered support to voluntary and full-time workers.
There are major problems, minor problems, organisational problems, problems with people, comprehension problems.
New containers will soon be located in Wasenstraße
For a while, one major problem has been finding homes subsequently for refugees that have been given certified status.
Communes themselves are responsible for subsequent accommodation.
They have to house the refugees in their own properties or in rented properties.
Communes themselves have to bear the costs for constructing, renting or renovating this accommodation.
Responsibility switches from district administration to communes and job centres.
The problem: Properties are free, but not every landlord is prepared to let.
The search has been very difficult for a while.
De facto, the administration cannot find any private homes.
According to Deuschle, being reliant on private homes has not worked.
This is why the commune's homes need to be beefed up, as it is so neatly put.
Consequently new containers will soon be located in Wasenstraße.
But homes alone will not do the trick.
Perspective is the key word, and Regine Kunde and Annika Deuschle agree on that score.
In addition to a fixed abode, internships, apprenticeships, school places, "one-euro" traineeship jobs and temporary jobs need to be found or set up for refugees and migrants.
"More jobs would be good," reports Regine Kunde.
Many people work in builder's yards or help caretakers, or do voluntary work - and that provides motivation in a very orderly way, as Annika Deuschle reports.
She hopes that working for the community leads to a positive public perception.
This is not "employment therapy."
Being active doesn't just mean working.
The day needs a fixed structure, Deuschle and Kunde say.
People need to develop a sense of belonging.
Consequently there is a need to provide sports, contact to locals, and, above all, language courses.
Professional courses are rare.
There is where the administration and volunteers can get involved.
She says it is key that refugees feel as if they are wanted and welcome in Germany.
The length of time that processes take is a problem.
They have to explain to refugees that it will take that long, and that the time can be filled productively - for example, with language courses.
If someone feels that they can't help anyone in Urbach, that they aren't allowed to work, and that they are useless, they'll never integrate.
The clear majority are motivated.
But there are also problem cases, Kunde says honestly, "people for whom nothing works." As a result, Deuschle and Kunde's work will always be to motivate others.
All told, this is "a mammoth task."
A tricky question: After recent events, are the two women worried about radicalisation, even in a small commune like Urbach?
"No," Regine Kunde said clearly, "which some people might call naive." She could not and did not want to ignore the chance of a residual risk remaining.
However, volunteers are already aware of this.
These issues are already discussed by the refugees.
They were afraid that the attackers would bring them into total disrepute.
"They want to show they have nothing to do with it," Regine Kunde said.
Many of them would like to stay in Urbach.
So full-time and volunteer staff have to keep an eye open for jobs in the town and across the region.
But they always have in the back of their mind that a new group of refugees and migrants could soon be arriving in Urbach.
Does Germany need a cap?
Politicians shy away from answering this question.
It is unfair to show them volunteers on site.
"In Urbach we've not got to where we wanted to be quite yet," said Annika Deuschle.
The situation would ease a bit if they did not receive any new refugees.
Regine Kunde also makes clear that the residents of Urbach have their hands full with integrating the refugees who have arrived to date.
Currently they amount to around 100 people, predominantly young men.
But when people are in need, you've got to help them - and both women agree on that.
The political situation is so complicated that there are no easy answers to be found there.
Schorndorf: Search for intruders made by helicopter
The police helicopter flew above various areas for about an hour - without success.
Two unknown men broke into an apartment in an apartment building in Lindenweg on Friday morning at around 8.50am.
The residents surprised the two men, who fled.
The two men were between 1.65m and 1.70m tall, probably wearing masks, both wearing blue jeans and black hooded tops.
They were heading towards the centre of town.
The police launched several strip patrols and a police helicopter to try and find them.
Without success.
It may be the case that the unknown assailants were recognised near the apartment or during their escape.
Baden-Württemberg: Police launch investigation after bikers attack a snack bar
After an attack on a snack stand in Ulm, police have launched investigations against six suspects who associate with the biker community for a serious breach of the peace.
House searches had revealed evidence and drugs, the police revealed on Friday.
According to the police, around 20 masked men from a biker-esque clan had thrown bottles and stones against the window of the snack bar.
Afterwards, two customers were attacked, one of whom was slightly injured.
Then they fled.
Damage amounting to 10,000 euros was caused to the snack bar and the neighbouring building.
Investigators believe it was a dispute among Ulm's biker gangs, between a Kurdish gang and a Turkish gang.
Thüringen: Zeiss Meditec comes closer to reaching a billion in turnover
Strong demand for medical technology in Asia has boosted Carl Zeiss Meditec's turnover.
Over the first nine months of the business year that started in October, the company's turnover grew by 6.7 percent to 789.6 million euros, as the listed company reported on Friday in Jena.
Its business in Asia grew disproportionately, by 17.1 percent.
Profits before interest and taxes increased from 89.5 million euros to 110.5 million euros, according to the interim report.
The Jena-based medical technology company wants to cross a turnover threshold of one billion euros this year, said its Board of Directors.
Zeiss Meditec produces devices and equipment for doctors' practices and clinics.
The company is owned by the Carl Zeiss optics and electronics firm (Oberkochen), and employs just under 3000 people.
